Growth retardation is a globally prevalent clinical issue, particularly in preterm offspring. It frequently occurs during the early postnatal development of piglets and results in high mortality. In addition to slow postnatal growth caused by complications from immature organs, these offspring are also at risk of facing significant long-term health challenges in adulthood. The liver plays a crucial role in regulating nutrient metabolism and immune function and frequently communicates with other organs to maintain overall health. However, the multifaceted mechanisms by which the liver regulates growth retardation in offspring remain largely unexplored.Here, we selected piglets exhibiting extreme weight variations at both birth and weaning stages for comprehensive histomorphological and multi-omics analysis in the liver. Compared to high weaning weight (HWW) piglets, the liver of low weaning weight (LWW) piglets was predominantly characterized by hepatic vacuolation and structural lesions. Transcriptomic analysis of the liver indicated that differentially expressed genes (DEGs) linked to amino acid metabolism (IDO1, DAO, and UROC1) and innate immune (ISG15, RSAD2, and IFIT1) showed significant upregulation in the high birth weight (HBW) piglets when compared to the low birth weight (LBW) piglets. Furthermore, DEGs identified at the weaning stage are primarily enriched in PPAR signaling pathway, protein digestion and absorption, glutathione metabolism, tryptophan metabolism, and ferroptosis. Notably, ferroptosis was the only pathway that showed overlapping enrichment in the KEGG enrichment analysis across all three omics datasets. Gene GCLM and significantly differential metabolites (SDMs) (L-glutathione, L-cysteine, and Gamma-glutamylcysteine) were co-enriched in ferroptosis and showed higher levels in HWW piglets. The elevation of these genes and metabolites plays a key role in scavenging reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and suppressing hepatic ferroptosis. Notably, GCLM was positively associated with L-glutathione and Gamma-glutamylcysteine, and these two metabolites were positively correlated with weaning weight, implying a potential role of these metabolites in improving growth performance. Finally, integrative analysis of RNA-seq and ATAC-seq data revealed several differentially accessible regions (DARs), which were annotated to the genes ACSL3, ITGA11, COL6A3, CYP2C49, and STXBP3. The transcription factor (TF)-gene regulatory network revealed that five DEGs (PML, STAT1, RCOR2, ELF3, and IRF1) are the downstream target genes of TFs, including MAZ and KIF1. These target DEGs are involved in liver development and the pathogenesis of hepatic disease.Taken together, the genes and metabolites identified in this study provide gene-targeted and nutrition-based therapeutic strategies for piglets with growth limitations during the lactation and even post-weaning stages. Our findings also provide epigenetic insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying liver-mediated modulation of growth and development in offspring.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12864-025-11896-0.
This study examined the therapeutic effects of tramadol hydrochloride and levetiracetam on preventing peridural fibrosis after laminectomy in rats.Under sedation anesthesia, standard laminectomies at T9, T10, and T11 were performed on 32 male Wistar albino rats weighing 300-350 g. The rats were then divided into groups: Sham (no pharmacological agent administered, n = 6 + 2); MP group (10 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone sodium succinate administered intraperitoneally for 14 days, n = 6 + 2); TRA group (0.6 mg/kg/day tramadol hydrochloride administered intraperitoneally for 14 days, n = 6 + 2); and LEV group (15 mg/kg/day levetiracetam administered intraperitoneally for 14 days, n = 6 + 2). Four weeks after surgery, all animals were euthanized, and their spinal columns were removed en bloc. Peridural fibrosis and collagen density were evaluated using hematoxylin-eosin and Masson-Trichrome staining, respectively. Collagen and alpha-SMA levels were assessed with COL1A1 and ACTA2 staining, respectively. ELISA measurements were taken for TNF-α, IL-6, TGF-ß, CTGF, caspase-3, and GSH/GSSG levels. Western blot analysis was performed to determine pAMPK, mTOR, pmTOR, and mTOR/p-mTOR levels.Histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses showed that methylprednisolone and tramadol reduced peridural fibrosis, collagen density, and collagen formation. Both agents exhibited anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic effects by decreasing TNF-α, IL-6, caspase-3, TGF-β, and CTGF levels. They demonstrated antioxidant properties by increasing GSH/GSSG levels, and they supported autophagy by increasing pAMPK and decreasing pmTOR levels.In summary, all three agents possessed anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-apoptotic, and autophagy-associated tissue regenerative properties. Due to these effects, they have the potential to reduce peridural fibrosis in the rat laminectomy model.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40428403 is a review article
Patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) derive limited benefits from chemotherapy or immunotherapy, with a five-year survival rate still below 10 %. The key therapeutic challenge is the dense fibrosis barrier driven by activated cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and their secreted collagen, which impedes drug penetration and characterizes PDAC as an immune-desert tumor. To address this challenge, we developed in vivo chimeric antigen receptor macrophages (FAP-CAR-M) targeting fibroblast activation protein-α (FAP), the marker of activated CAFs, to enhance chemo and immunotherapy against PDAC by removing the fibrosis barrier using mannose-modified mRNA-LNP (MLNP). Our results demonstrate that mRNA-MLNP can efficiently reprogram M2 macrophages into FAP-CAR-M. With the FAP-CAR-M treatment, the activated CAF markers (FAP), collagen volume fraction (CVF), and the type I collagen (Col1a1) secretion were decreased by 3-fold, 5-fold, and 4-fold inan orthotopic mouse model of PDAC, respectively. By removing the fibrosis barrier, FAP-CAR-M enhanced the penetration of gemcitabine (GEM) and immune cells, improved PDAC sensitivity to chemo and immunotherapy, and significantly prolonged survival. Therefore, in vivo FAP-CAR-M may represent a potential therapeutic approach to enhance chemo and immunotherapy against PDAC by removing the fibrosis barrier.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Effective wound healing requires multifunctional biomaterials that support rapid tissue regeneration while providing structural integrity, biocompatibility, and therapeutic functionality. The successful fabrication of stacked patches was achieved through spin coating and electrospinning techniques, ensuring precise layering and seamless integration of Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose (HPMC), Polycaprolactone (PCL), and 59S Bioglass (BG). The homogeneous dissolution of HPMC and PCL in the trisolvent mixture played a crucial role in achieving a uniform solution, facilitating the formation of well-structured layers. This integration enhanced the composite's structural and functional properties, with FESEM revealing a fibrous morphology and distinct layer differentiation. Degradation studies showed consistent weight loss in CP, CPD, and stacked patches over time particularly during the first 3 days, highlighting their stability. The stacked mat exhibited desirable mechanical properties with distinct elastic, strain-hardening, and fracture regions, achieving a tensile strength of 6.14 MPa and sufficient flexibility. Rapid degradation of the CB patches within 1 day emphasized the necessity of layer integration. The stacked patches exhibited superior biocompatibility with a reduced hemolysis rate (0.282%) and sustained metformin release over 3 days, crucial for inflammation management and tissue regeneration. The combination of HPMC/bioglass and HPMC/PCL/metformin demonstrated significant anti-inflammatory effects, inhibiting COX, LOX, MPO, and iNOS activities while reducing nitrite levels. Additionally, assays indicated a proliferation rate exceeding 90%, enhanced cell viability, angiogenesis, and antibacterial activity underscoring the stacked patches potential for wound healing. The combined attributes of structural stability, biocompatibility, efficient drug release, and anti-inflammatory efficacy represent a notable advancement in wound care with the potential to expedite the healing process. The in vivo studies demonstrated that the stacked patches significantly expedited wound closure, leading to full healing within 14 days. Histological evaluation evidently revealed enhanced tissue regeneration, characterized by rapid re-epithelialization, enhanced collagen formation, as well as increased vascularization, while also displaying a notable reduction in inflammation. Moreover, the lack of histopathological abnormalities in the examined organs obviously confirms their biocompatibility, reinforcing their suitability as a promising multifunctional biomaterial for advanced wound healing applications.
Tumor-associated fibrosis contributes to an immunosuppressive microenvironment that hinders effective anti-tumor immune responses. This study investigates the potential of IOA-289, a novel autotaxin (ATX) inhibitor, which blocks lysophosphatidate (LPA) production and signaling, in modulating fibrosis in breast tumors. Bioinformatic analysis of human breast tumors revealed a strong correlation between levels of LPA1,-4 receptors and extracellular matrix (ECM) genes. Interaction of ECM molecules and integrin β1/CD44 between myofibroblasts and other cell types had the highest contribution to cell-cell communication. We showed that LPA induced α-smooth muscle actin mRNA in mouse mammary fibroblasts and increased expressions of collagen type-I α1 chain (COL1A1) and lamininγ1. IOA-289 decreased the expressions of COL1A1, fibronectin-1, and transforming growth factor β1 (TGFβ1) in E0771 breast tumors in mice. Masson's trichrome staining revealed a marked decrease in collagen deposition within breast tumors of IOA-289-treated mice. Decreased tumor fibrosis aligns with previous findings that IOA-289 enhanced the infiltration of CD8+ cytotoxic T cells and decreased fibrotic factors including leukemia inhibitory factor and transforming growth factor-beta1 in tumors. We also demonstrated that E0771 cells express negligible ATX and LPA receptors. Therefore, ATX inhibition did not affect cancer cells directly in our model. These results underscore the potential of ATX inhibitors in reprogramming the tumor microenvironment to favor anti-tumor immunity and attenuate fibrosis. ATX inhibitors are in clinical trials for treating idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and pancreatic cancer. Our results support the development of ATX inhibitors as a strategy for improving the treatment of breast cancer and other diseases involving fibrosis.© 2025 The Author(s). International Journal of Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of UICC.
This study investigates the regenerative and protective effects of postbiotics (cell-free supernatant) derived from the Lactiplantibacillus plantarum EIR/IF-1 strain on human periodontal ligament mesenchymal stromal cells (hPDL-MSCs).hPDL-MSCs were isolated from periodontal ligament tissues (PDL) of wisdom teeth using enzymatic digestion and subsequently characterized through immunophenotyping. The effect of postbiotics on the viability of hPDL-MSCs was assessed using the MTT assay and flow cytometry, while their impact on cell migration was evaluated via the scratch assay. Anti-inflammatory effects of postbiotics were investigated on lipopolysaccharide (LPS, derived from Porphyromonas gingivalis)-stimulated hPDL-MSCs through Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). Additionally, the antioxidant effects of postbiotics were analyzed in hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂)-induced hPDL-MSCs by measuring reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels using flow cytometry. The expression of collagen type I (COL1A1) gene was further assessed by quantitative reverse transcription PCR and immunofluorescence staining.Treatment with postbiotics (250 µg/mL) significantly increased the viability and migration capability of hPDL-MSCs, while enhancing collagen production for PDL repair. Treatment with postbiotics for 24 h resulted in a 54.53 ± 2.01% reduction in intracellular ROS levels compared to untreated H2O2-induced hPDL-MSCs. Furthermore, postbiotics significantly decreased the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-8, IL-6, and IL-1β), and increased the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 (2.67-fold) compared to untreated LPS-stimulated hPDL-MSCs.Our findings indicate that postbiotics exhibit biological activity throughout all stages of the healing process, beginning with the modulation of the inflammatory response to LPS stimulation, followed by the promotion of cell migration, proliferation, and collagen synthesis. Given the unmet need for safe and adjuvant therapeutic approaches that promote comprehensive periodontal regeneration in periodontal diseases, this study presents postbiotics as a promising candidate.Postbiotics could be integrated into regenerative therapies as a novel bioactive material to improve the healing and regenerative outcomes in periodontal defects by both controlling inflammation and stimulating tissue repair processes.© 2025. The Author(s).
Lysyl hydroxylase 2 (LH2) is highly expressed in multiple tumor types and accelerates disease progression by hydroxylating lysine residues on fibrillar collagen telopeptides to generate stable collagen cross links in tumor stroma. Here, we show that a galactosylhydroxylysyl glucosyltransferase (GGT) domain on LH2-modified type-VI collagen (Col6) to promote lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) growth and metastasis. In tumors generated by LUAD cells lacking LH2 GGT domain activity, stroma was less stiff, and stable types of collagen cross links were reduced. Mass spectrometric analysis of total and glycosylated peptides in parental and GGT-inactive tumor samples identified Col6 chain α3 (Col6a3), a component of the Col6 heterotrimeric molecule, as a candidate LH2 substrate. In gain- and loss-of-function studies, high Col6a3 levels increased tumor growth and metastatic activity and enhanced the proliferative, migratory, and invasive activities of LUAD cells. LH2 coimmunoprecipitated with Col6a3, and LH2 glucosylated Col6 in an in vitro reaction. Glucosylation increased the integrin-binding and promigratory activities of Col6 in LUAD cells. Col6a3 K2049 was deglucosylated in GGT-inactive tumor samples, and mutagenesis of Col6a3 K2049 phenocopied Col6a3 deficiency or LH2 GGT domain inactivation in LUAD cells. Thus, LH2 glucosylates Col6 to drive LUAD progression. These findings show that the GGT domain of LH2 is protumorigenic, identify Col6 as a candidate effector, and provide a rationale to develop pharmacological strategies that target LH2's GGT domain in cancer cells.
Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) is an oxidoreductase responsible for the formation, reduction and isomerization of disulfide bonds of nascent proteins in endoplasmic reticulum (ER). So far, the role of PDI in bone biology has never been characterized using genetically-modified animal models. In this study we generated osteoblast- specific PDI-deficient mice by crossing PDI-floxed (PDIfl/fl) mice with Osx-Cre mice. Compared with their littermate control PDIfl/fl mice, homozygous osteoblast-knockout mice (Osx-Cre/PDIfl/fl) were embryonically lethal, but heterozygous knockout mice (Osx-Cre/PDIfl/wt) displayed significantly pronounced growth retardation and reduced bone length. Besides, the decreases in bone density, osteoblast and osteoclast numbers, collagen fiber content and bone formation rate were observed in Osx-Cre/PDIfl/wt mice. Osteoblast precursors isolated from PDIfl/fl mice were infected with Cre recombinant adenovirus to produce PDI-deficient osteoblasts, followed by induction of differentiation. Osteoblasts deficient of PDI had decreased alkaline phosphatase activity, mineralizing capacity, and differentiation. Quantitative protein mass spectrometry analysis and immunoblotting showed that PDI deficiency markedly decreased the expression of the α-subunits of collagen prolyl 4-hydroxylase (C-P4H), including P4HA1, P4HA2 and P4HA3. These results demonstrate that PDI plays an essential role in osteoblast differentiation and bone formation and is required for the expression of the α-subunit of C-P4H in osteoblasts.© 2025. The Author(s).
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic and progressive interstitial pneumonia, with increasing incidence and prevalence. One of the cellular characteristics is the differentiation of fibroblasts to myofibroblasts. However, the metabolic-related signaling pathway regulated by circular RNAs (circRNAs) during this process remains unclear. Here, we demonstrated that circ0066187 promoted fibroblast-to-myofibroblast differentiation by metabolic-related signaling pathway. Mechanism analysis research identified that circ0066187 directly targeted signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3)-mediated metabolism signal pathway to enhance fibroblast-to-myofibroblast differentiation by sponging miR-29b-2-5p, resulting in pulmonary fibrosis. Integrative multi-omics analysis of metabolomics and proteomics revealed three pathways co-enriched in proteomics and metabolomics, namely, Protein digestion and absorption, PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, and FoxO signaling pathway. In these three signaling pathways, seven differentially expressed metabolites such as L-glutamine, L-proline, adenosine monophosphate (AMP), L-arginine, L-phenylalanine, L-lysine and L-tryptophan, and six differentially expressed proteins containing dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4), cyclin D1 (CCND1), cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2), collagen type VI alpha 1 (COL6A1) and superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2) were co-enriched. Gain-and loss-of-function studies and rescue experiments were performed to verify that circ0066187 promoted STAT3 expression by inhibiting miR-29b-2-5p expression to control the above metabolites and proteins. As a result, these metabolites and proteins provided the material basis and energy requirements for the progression of pulmonary fibrosis. In conclusion, circ0066187 can function as a profibrotic metabolism-related factor, and interference with circ0066187 can prevent pulmonary fibrosis. The finding supported that circ0066187 can be a metabolism-related therapeutic target for IPF treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40906383 is a review article
PLOD3 (procollagen-lysine, 2-oxoglutarate 5-dioxygenase 3), a key enzyme involved in collagen post-translational modification, is critical for maintaining the structural integrity of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Dysregulation of PLOD3 has been implicated in various malignancies, including colorectal cancer (CRC).This study aimed to elucidate the role of PLOD3 in CRC and evaluate its potential as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target. We conducted a comprehensive analysis utilizing data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) to evaluate PLOD3 expression in CRC. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were conducted to investigate its impact on overall survival. Functional assays, including wound healing, Transwell migration, and invasion assays, were carried out in CRC cell lines with modified PLOD3 expression to elucidate its role in regulating tumor cell behavior. Furthermore, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was employed to identify signaling pathways associated with PLOD3 expression. Our findings demonstrate that PLOD3 is significantly overexpressed in CRC tissues compared to normal tissues, and its elevated expression is associated with poor prognosis and reduced overall survival. The study also developed a RiskScore model incorporating PLOD3 and 11 other genes, which exhibited strong predictive performance for patient outcomes. Functional experiments confirmed that PLOD3 overexpression enhances CRC cell migration and invasion. GSEA linked high PLOD3 expression to the activation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and metastasis-related pathways. In conclusion, PLOD3 plays a pivotal role in CRC progression by promoting tumor growth and metastasis. Its elevated expression serves as an independent prognostic marker and a potential target for therapeutic intervention, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms driving CRC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 39875019 is a review article
Aortic dissection or rupture is a major cause of mortality in vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (vEDS), a connective tissue disorder caused by heterozygous mutations in the collagen type III alpha 1 chain (COL3A1) gene. C57BL6/J (BL6) mice carrying the Col3a1G938D/+ mutation recapitulate the vEDS vascular phenotype and die suddenly of aortic rupture/dissection. However, 129S6/SvEvTac (referred to here as 129) mice expressing the same Col3a1G938D/+ mutation show near-complete lifelong protection from vascular rupture. To identify genetic modifiers of vascular risk in vEDS, we performed genome-wide genotyping of intercrossed BL6/129 vEDS mice stratified by survival and identified a significant protective locus encompassing a variant in Map2k6, encoding mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 6 (M2K6), a p38-activating kinase. Genetic ablation of Map2k6 rendered previously protected 129 vEDS mice susceptible to aortic rupture, in association with reduced protein phosphatase 1 activity and increased PKC and ERK phosphorylation. Accelerated vascular rupture in vEDS mice treated with a pharmacological inhibitor of p38 was rescued by concomitant ERK antagonism, supporting an opposing role for ERK and p38 in the modification of aortic rupture risk in vEDS. These results suggest that pharmacologic strategies aimed at mimicking the effect of this natural protective pathway may attenuate aortic rupture risk in vEDS.
Osteonecrosis of femoral head (ONFH) is characterized not only by ischemic bone tissue necrosis but also by cartilage degeneration, which plays an essential role in the pathogenesis of ONFH. The molecular communication between tissues contributes to disease progression, however the communication between cartilage and subchondral bone in the progression of ONFH remains unclear. In this study, we integrated transcriptomic data from ONFH cartilage and subchondral bone, exploring common differentially expressed genes (DEGs), pathway and function enrichment analyses, the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, and hub genes to comprehensively study molecular integration. Additionally, we explored the molecular crosstalk between and within cartilage and subchondral bone using ligand-receptor pairs and ONFH cartilage proteomic data. Finally, key genes and ligand-receptor pairs were validated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). There were 27 common DEGs and five hub genes in cartilage and subchondral bone. The defined hub genes included COL1A1, COLIA2, CTSK, SPARC, and MXRA5. Notably, pathways related to ossification, extracellular matrix, and collagen formation were significantly altered in ONFH. Ligand-receptor data combined with DEGs revealed 60 differentially expressed ligands and 51 differentially expressed receptors in cartilage and four ligands and three receptors in subchondral bone. In inter-tissue comparisons, ligands from chondrocytes predominantly paired with receptors on osteoblasts in the subchondral bone, such as FN1, MMP2, and FGF1. Conversely, ligands from osteoblasts and osteocytes in the subchondral bone frequently paired with chondrocyte receptors, including FN1, COL1A1, and SEMA7A. At the protein level, we identified thirteen ligands and one receptor, with COL3A1 being the most highly expressed ligand and CD82 the only differentially expressed receptor in ONFH. This study highlights common molecular mechanisms and ligand-receptor crosstalk between and within cartilage and subchondral bone in ONFH, offering new insights into the disease's pathophysiology and potential molecular targets for therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The need for better and simpler alternative crosslinking strategies to treat keratoconus (KC) is becoming essential as there is only a single approved way to treat it. Recently, conventional UV-A Riboflavin crosslinking is proven to have some disadvantages such as causing damage to the corneal endothelium and inducing keratocyte apoptosis. A chemical cross-linker (CXL) using carbodiimide chemistry and an octanedioic acid spacer is found effective in stiffening the cornea and has the potential to be developed as an alternative therapy to halt KC progression. In order to investigate the molecular changes induced by the cross-linker, we have analyzed the effect of the cross-linker on the activity of matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) in epithelial and stromal layers of KC corneas and in vitro cellular systems to determine its role in stiffening the KC cornea. At well-optimized concentration, KC corneal buttons were treated with the CXL and the stiffening of the cornea was measured. The collagen fibril assembly in the stroma was analyzed using transmission electron microscopy and the activity of MMPs 2 and 9 were visualized using gelatin zymography. KC corneal fibroblasts in culture and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) induced human corneal epithelial (HCE) cell line were treated with CXL and secretion of MMPs 1, 2, 3 and 9 were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). We found that the CXL stiffened the KC corneas comparable to the normal corneas, with very less cytotoxicity. The collagen fiber assembly was reorganized in an orderly fashion and fibril density and diameter increased after CXL treatment. The activity of MMPs and cathepsin G in the epithelial and stromal layers of KC tissues decreased post-treatment. Secretion and activity of MMPs from the corneal epithelial and stromal cells after CXL treatment were significantly reduced while the epithelial lysyl oxidase activity increased. The CXL, intended to stop the KC progression, modified the extracellular matrix collagen assembly in the stroma and decreased the secretion of a group of metalloproteases and their activity. We have demonstrated a set of molecular changes effected by the CXL, which might aid in the stiffening of the KC cornea.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Psoriasis is a common chronic inflammatory skin disease characterized by a thickened epidermis with elongated rete ridges and massive immune cell infiltration. It is currently unclear what impact mechanoregulatory aspects may have on disease progression. Using multiphoton second harmonic generation microscopy, we found that the extracellular matrix was profoundly reorganized within psoriatic dermis. Collagen fibers were highly aligned and assembled into thick, long collagen bundles, whereas the overall fiber density was reduced. This was particularly pronounced within dermal papillae extending into the epidermis. Furthermore, the extracellular matrix-modifying enzyme lysyl oxidase was highly upregulated in the dermis of patients with psoriasis. In vitro experiments identified a previously unreported link between hypoxia-inducing factor 1 stabilization and lysyl oxidase protein regulation in mechanosensitive skin fibroblasts. Lysyl oxidase secretion and activity directly correlated with substrate stiffness and were independent of hypoxia and IL-17. Finally, single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis identified skin fibroblasts expressing high amounts of lysyl oxidase and confirmed elevated hypoxia-inducing factor 1 expression in psoriasis. Our findings suggest a potential yet undescribed mechanical aspect of psoriasis. Deregulated mechanical forces hence may be involved in initiating or maintaining of a positive feedback loop in fibroblasts and contribute to tissue stiffening and diminished skin elasticity in psoriasis, potentially exacerbating disease pathogenesis.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39488754 is a review article
Liver fibrosis is a significant health burden, marked by the consistent deposition of collagen. Unfortunately, the currently available treatment approaches for this condition are far from optimal. Lysyl oxidase-like protein 2 (LOXL2) secreted by hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) is a crucial player in the cross-linking of matrix collagen and is a significant target for treating liver fibrosis. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived small extracellular vesicles (MSC-sEVs) have been proposed as a potential treatment option for chronic liver disorders. Previous studies have found that MSC-sEV can be used for microRNA delivery into target cells or tissues. It is currently unclear whether microRNA-4465 (miR-4465) can target LOXL2 and inhibit HSC activation. Additionally, it is uncertain whether MSC-sEV can be utilized as a gene therapy vector to carry miR-4465 and effectively inhibit the progression of liver fibrosis. This study explored the effect of miR-4465-modified MSC-sEV (MSC-sEVmiR-4465) on LOXL2 expression and liver fibrosis development. The results showed that miR-4465 can bind specifically to the promoter of the LOXL2 gene in HSC. Moreover, MSC-sEVmiR-4465 inhibited HSC activation and collagen expression by downregulating LOXL2 expression in vitro. MSC-sEVmiR-4465 injection could reduce HSC activation and collagen deposition in the CCl4-induced mouse model. MSC-sEVmiR-4465 mediating via LOXL2 also hindered the migration and invasion of HepG2 cells. In conclusion, we found that MSC-sEV can deliver miR-4465 into HSC to alleviate liver fibrosis via altering LOXL2, which might provide a promising therapeutic strategy for liver diseases.
Skipped: PubMed ID 18195088 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15772300 is a review article
Nutrient digestion and absorption is necessary for the survival of living organisms and has evolved into the complex and specific task of the gastrointestinal (GI) system. While most people simply assume that their GI tract will work properly to use nutrients, provide energy, and release wastes, few nonscientists know the details about how various nutrients are digested and how the breakdown products traverse the cells lining the small intestine to reach the blood stream and to be used by the other cells of the body. There have been several recent discoveries of new transporters that likely contribute to the absorption of oligopeptides and fatty acids. In addition, details are being clarified about how transporters work and in what forms nutrients can be absorbed. The enzymes that digest basic carbohydrates, proteins, and fats have been identified in various segments of the GI tract, and details are becoming clearer about what types of bonds they hydrolyze. Usually, detailed information about the digestion of basic nutrients is presented and learned in biochemistry courses and detailed information about absorption via transepithelial transport of the breakdown products of digestion is studied in physiology courses. The goal of this Staying Current article is to combine the details of the biochemistry of digestion with the updated information about the physiology of nutrient absorption into one source for teachers of physiology. Insights are included about some of the diseases and conditions that can bring about malabsorption of food in the GI tract and their consequences.
Skipped: PubMed ID 11546643 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 18400692 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 9687539 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 14977407 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 12237156 is a review article
The longitudinal distribution of brush-border endopeptidase-24.11, endopeptidase-2, aminopeptidase W, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP IV), carboxypeptidase P, and aminopeptidase P in the rat intestine was determined. The jejunum has the highest activities of endopeptidase-24.11 and ACE while the ileum has the highest activities of aminopeptidase W and carboxypeptidase P, and the jejunoileal junction has the highest activity of aminopeptidase P. The jejunum and ileum have similar activities of DPP IV. The profiles of differential hydrolysis of neurotensin and acetylneurotensin (8-13) along the intestine agree with distribution of endopeptidase-24.11 and ACE, suggesting that amino acid sequences of peptides and the substrate specificity of enzymes will determine site-dependent hydrolysis. There is substantial similarity in the intestinal distribution of peptidases in the human, rat, and rabbit.
Skipped: PubMed ID 12583961 is a review article
The abilities of slurries of human faecal bacteria to ferment 20 different amino acids were investigated in batch culture incubations. Ammonia, short chain fatty acids, and in some cases, amines, were the principal products of dissimilatory metabolism. The types of SCFA produced were dependent on the chemical compositions of the test substrates. Thus, acetate and butyrate were formed from the acidic amino acid glutamate, while acetate and propionate predominated in aspartate fermentations. Breakdown of the basic amino acids lysine and arginine was rapid, and yielded butyrate and acetate, and ornithine and citrulline, respectively. The major products of histidine deamination were also acetate and butyrate. However, fermentation of sulphur-containing amino acids was slow and incomplete. Acetate, propionate and butyrate were formed from cysteine, whereas the main products of methionine metabolism were propionate and butyrate. The simple aliphatic amino acids alanine and glycine were fermented to acetate, propionate and butyrate, and acetate and methylamine, respectively. Branched-chain amino acids were slowly fermented by colonic bacteria, with the main acidic products being branched-chain fatty acids one carbon atom shorter than the parent amino acid. Low concentrations of amines were also detected in these fermentations. Aliphatic-hydroxy amino acids were rapidly deaminated by large intestinal microorganisms. Serine was primarily fermented to acetate and butyrate, while threonine was mainly metabolised to propionate. Proline was poorly utilized by intestinal bacteria, but hydroxyproline was efficiently fermented to acetate and propionate. The aromatic amino acids tyrosine, phenylalanine and tryptophan were broken down to a range of phenolic and indolic compounds.
Skipped: PubMed ID 20093818 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 18626068 is a review article
