Drug-induced liver injury is a major cause of acute liver failure. Crizotinib is a first-line treatment for patients with cellular-mesenchymal epithelial transition factor (c-MET), anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), and ROS proto-oncogene 1 (ROS1)-positive non-small cell lung cancer. Although some patients treated with crizotinib experience hepatic adverse effects, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic approaches to understand the molecular mechanisms of crizotinib-induced liver injury. After administering 500 mg/kg of crizotinib via gavage for two consecutive days, we observed elevated transaminase levels in mouse plasma, accompanied by increased hepatic lipid peroxidation and cell death. Multi-omics analysis revealed that crizotinib induces ferroptosis through processes such as cholesterol metabolism, glutathione metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, and iron ion transport. Notably, changes in RNA methylation levels may play a crucial role in the ferroptosis triggered by crizotinib. Our findings highlight ferroptosis as an important mechanism underlying crizotinib-induced liver injury, providing new insights into the adverse drug reaction mechanisms of crizotinib.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The increasing presence of nanoplastics (NPs) and synthetic antioxidants like 3-tert -Butyl-4-hydroxyanisole (3-BHA) in the environment has attracted widespread attention about their combined toxicological effects on human health, particularly on renal function. This study explored to the combined impacts of NPs and 3-BHA at environmentally relevant concentrations on sub-chronic kidney injury in mice. Firstly, our results confirmed that the accumulation of 80 nm NPs in renal tissues, leading to structural abnormalities such as reduced mitochondrial cristae and increased empty bubbles in mice by transmission electron microscope (TEM) analysis. Secondly, NPs and 3-BHA co-treatment resulted in significant renal developmental abnormalities including decreased kidney weight, as well as reduced organ index of kidney/body weight in mice. Besides, the histopathological staining revealed that severe renal damage characterized by thickened tubular epithelium, glomerular atrophy, and inflammatory cell infiltration were observed in kidney tissues after co-exposure. Additionally, co-exposure increased collagen fiber deposition and enhanced renal fibrosis, which showing elevated expression levels of renal function markers such as BUN, CRE, Cys-C and β2-MG. Oxidative stress and renal apoptosis were significantly aggravated, as evidenced by increased CAT, GSH-Px, and SOD levels together with TUNEL staining and expressions of apoptosis-related genes. Furthermore, co-exposure of NPs and 3-BHA caused the activation of TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway, promoting epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and extracellular matrix deposition, which are key processes in renal fibrosis. Thirdly, RNA-Seq analysis identified disruptions in energy metabolism and redox balance, with terms associated with oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial ATP synthesis were significantly enriched after NPs and 3-BHA co-exposure. Finally, pharmacological inhibition of TGF-β/Smad signaling using hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) could partially rescue the renal damage, cell apoptosis, inflammation and fibrosis after co-treatment. In summary, these results demonstrated the synergistic nephrotoxic effects of nanoplastics and 3-BHA in mice, which mainly mediated through oxidative stress, inflammation/apoptosis and TGF-β/SMAD signaling pathway. These information point to the critical need for further exploration of the combined effects of environmental pollutants on human kidney function.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Plastic pollution is ubiquitous in aquatic ecosystem, posing growing threats to ecosystem health. Maternal transfer of polystyrene nanoplastics (PS-NPs) is known to impair offspring development, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms driving these transgenerational effects remain poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which maternal PS-NPs exposure disrupts embryonic development and locomotion in zebrafish offspring, with a specific focus on mitochondrial dysfunction. We investigated the transgenerational consequences of maternal exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations (1-100 μg/L) of europium-chelated PS-NPs (50 nm PS-Eu) over 120 days. Developmental, behavioral, mitochondrial respiration, and transcriptomic endpoints were assessed in offspring. Keys findings revealed that maternal exposure to 10 (p < 0.01) and 100 μg/L (p < 0.001) PS-Eu significantly reduced offspring head area and body length while increasing malformation rates compared to controls. Locomotor behavior was markedly inhibited in offspring from mother exposed to 10 (p < 0.01) and 100 μg/L PS-Eu (p < 0.05). Furthermore, maternal exposure to 100 μg/L PS-Eu suppressed offspring mitochondrial respiration including reduced basal respiration (p < 0.01), ATP-linked respiration (p < 0.01), and maximal respiration (p < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis identified oxidative phosphorylation as the most significantly suppressed pathway, with 15 related genes (e.g., atp5po, uqcrq, atp5pd, atp5l, atp6v0a2b, uqcrc2a, and others) downregulated. Protein-protein interaction networks pinpointed atp5po, uqcrq, atp5pd, and atp5l as hub genes, and their suppression was validated via RT-qPCR. These integrated results demonstrate that maternal PS-NPs inhibit embryonic development and locomotion in offspring, by disrupting mitochondrial energy metabolism and oxidative phosphorylation-related genes. Our study provides crucial mechanistic understanding of maternal PS-NPs toxicity and contributes significantly to environmental risk assessments for nanoplastics in aquatic species.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Asthma is a heterogeneous disease characterized by chronic airway inflammation and metabolic dysregulation. Recent studies highlight the role of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) imbalance in asthma pathogenesis, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. UDP-galactose-4-epimerase (GALE), a key enzyme in galactose metabolism, has not been previously explored in asthma.This study aimed to identify asthma-associated metabolic genes and investigate the therapeutic potential of 3,6'-Disinapoyl Sucrose (DISS), a natural compound, in modulating GALE-mediated metabolic reprogramming.Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) of bronchial epithelial datasets (GSE43696, GSE147878, GSE143303) identified 475 asthma-associated genes enriched in carbohydrate metabolism. Intersection with glycolysis/OXPHOS hallmark genes revealed GALE as a key candidate, validated by machine learning (SVM-RFE, RF, LASSO) and multi-dataset analysis. GALE expression correlated with severe and neutrophilic asthma subtypes. Virtual screening prioritized DISS as a GALE inhibitor (-14.91 kcal/mol), which suppressed glycolysis (reduced ECAR, PFK, PKM, LDHA), restored redox balance (increased SOD/CAT, decreased MDA), and mitigated mitochondrial dysfunction (restored ΔΨm, reduced mtROS) in HDM-stimulated BEAS-2B cells. In vivo, DISS attenuated airway inflammation (reduced IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, IgE), mucus hypersecretion, and pathological remodeling in HDM-induced asthmatic mice.GALE-driven metabolic reprogramming is a novel mechanism in asthma progression. DISS alleviates airway inflammation by targeting GALE, normalizing glycolysis, and reducing oxidative stress, offering a promising therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Ammonia nitrogen is a major pollutant in aquatic environments, affecting the growth and physiological functions of aquatic animals. This study focused on the sea cucumber Apostichopus japonicus as the research subject, and conducted a series of experiments to evaluate its tolerance to ammonia nitrogen. Enzyme activity in the body wall was measured to assess changes in growth and physiological functions. Additionally, transcriptomic and metabolomic sequencing analyses were performed on intestinal tissue to systematically investigate the effects of ammonia nitrogen on physiological responses, molecular mechanisms, and metabolic regulation in A. japonicus. The results revealed that sea cucumbers exhibited high tolerance to ammonia nitrogen. Under two stress concentrations, their survival rate remained at 100 %, although the weight gain rate (WGR) and specific growth rate (SGR) declined significantly. CAT activity increased significantly with rising ammonia nitrogen concentrations and glutathione metabolism and CYP450 pathways were significantly enriched. Upregulation of MGST3 and CYP1A1 indicated that sea cucumbers mitigated oxidative stress and toxicity through these pathways. Glycolysis and the TCA cycle were suppressed, as indicated by reduced activities of HK, PK, MDH, and SDH, and by downregulation of the PFKM gene. Conversely, metabolic pathways involving amino acids such as alanine and aspartate were significantly enriched, suggesting that accelerated amino acid metabolism help to compensate for energy demands. Notably, apoptosis-related pathways (e.g., MAPK and mTOR signaling pathways) and the oxidative phosphorylation pathway were enriched exclusively under high ammonia nitrogen stress. The upregulation of caspase-3 and caspase-8 suggests that sea cucumbers eliminate the damaged cells via apoptosis. Meanwhile, high expression of COX family genes which are involved in oxidative phosphorylation, likely enhanced energy production. Under low ammonia nitrogen conditions, the NOD receptor signaling pathway was significantly enhanced, which may strengthen the immune response. This study enhances our understanding on the molecular mechanisms underpinning ammonia nitrogen tolerance in sea cucumbers and provides new insights into promoting sustainable aquaculture.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The noble scallop Chlamys nobilis is the main cultured economic bivalve on the south coast of China. However, parasitic and bacterial infections have caused great economic losses on the scallop in recent years. Our previous study showed that the black shell disease caused by polychaete parasites leads to increased mortality and slow growth of the scallop. However, little is known about the secondary effects in mollusks. In this study, the secondary effects of Vibrio parahaemolyticus on the noble scallop with black shell disease were investigated by histopathological, physiological and transcriptomic analysis. Within 24 h of V. parahaemolyticus infection, the mortality rate and the LT50 of healthy and black shell disease scallops were 51.06 %, 62.36 % and 23.56 h and 19.19 h, respectively. Moreover, the tissue damage was more severe, THC was significantly lower, and ROS and apoptosis were significantly higher in black shell disease scallops than in healthy scallops. Transcriptome analysis showed that DEGs were significantly enriched in pathways related to energy metabolism, antioxidant and immune function in healthy scallops and black shell disease scallops after V. parahaemolyticus injection, including oxidative phosphorylation, AMPK signaling pathway, natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity, apoptosis. We observed that 24 h after injection with V. parahaemolyticus, the expression levels of ATP synthase genes (ATP5F1, ATP5C1, ATP5G2, ATP5L, ATP5A1) in black shell disease scallops and healthy scallops further decreased, while the expression levels of ATPase genes (ATP6V0C, ATP6AP1, ATP6V1C2) further increased. The expression levels of energy homeostasis-related genes (PRKAA1 and PRKAG2) were significantly decreased. Alterations were observed in immune related genes involved in TNFSF10, CASP2, CASP3, CASP7 and BIRC2. These results indicated that pathogen infection of the black shell disease scallops may weaken their energy metabolism system, antioxidant system and immune system, and the damage may be irreversible. This study is the first to explore the response mechanism of secondary bacterial infection of black shell disease on the mollusks, providing useful information for the management of scallop aquaculture health.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
ATP5F1A encodes the α-subunit of complex V of the respiratory chain, which is responsible for mitochondrial ATP synthesis. We describe 6 probands with heterozygous de novo missense ATP5F1A variants that presented with developmental delay, intellectual disability, and movement disorders. All variants were located at the contact points between the α- and β-subunits. Functional studies in C. elegans revealed that the variants were damaging via a dominant negative genetic mechanism. Biochemical and proteomics studies of proband-derived cells showed a marked reduction in complex V abundance and activity. Mitochondrial physiology studies revealed increased oxygen consumption, yet decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and ATP levels indicative of uncoupled oxidative phosphorylation as a pathophysiologic mechanism. Our findings contrast with the previously reported ATP5F1A variant, p.Arg207His, indicating a different pathological mechanism. This study expands the phenotypic and genotypic spectrum of ATP5F1A-associated conditions and highlights how functional studies can provide an understanding of the genetic, molecular, and cellular mechanisms of ATP5F1A variants of uncertain significance. With 12 heterozygous individuals now reported, ATP5F1A is the most frequent nuclear genome cause of complex V deficiency.© 2025. The Author(s).
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) genes, oxidative stress, and antioxidant responses in the duodenum, involved in differential residual feed intake (RFI), an indicator of feed efficiency. The study was conducted on two groups of 15 male slow-growing Korat chickens (KRC), the low RFI (LRFI) group and the high RFI (HRFI) group, with mean values of -197.8 ± 12.1 g and 200.8 ± 15.1 g, respectively. The results indicated that differences in RFI did not negatively affect growth performance (P>0.05). The LRFI group had a significantly lower feed intake than the HRFI group (P<0.05). Expression profiles of mitochondrial OXPHOS genes showed that COX1, COX2, COX3, CYTB, ND2, ND5, ATP6, and ATP8 were upregulated in HRFI chickens (P<0.05), indicating a higher mitochondrial activity related to cellular respiration for energy production. This was consistent with the higher oxidative stress indicated by increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production observed in HRFI chickens. Moreover, the antioxidant enzyme activities in HRFI were significantly higher than those in LRFI, suggesting that HRFI birds have the capacity to cope with elevated levels of ROS. Principal component analysis (PCA), which integrated phenotypic characterization, mitochondrial oxidative status, and gene expression levels, revealed a clear separation between LRFI and HRFI chickens, with PC-1 explaining 47% of the variance. Mitochondrial OXPHOS genes and oxidative stress-related traits clustered toward the HRFI group, indicating a positive correlation between reduced feed efficiency, oxidative metabolism to produce energy, and elevated oxidative stress. This study demonstrates that differences in feed efficiency in KRC were associated with differences in mitochondrial function related to cellular respiration and antioxidant enzyme mechanisms, which eliminate ROS produced during cellular respiration. The findings suggested that HRFI chickens had greater energy demands compared to LRFI chickens.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Excessive inflammation in sepsis and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is driven by immune dysregulation involving conventional dendritic cells (cDCs), which regulate adaptive immunity, and macrophages, which mediate inflammation and tissue repair. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) plays a crucial role in regulating these innate immune cells, suggesting that targeting AhR is a promising strategy to mitigate hyperinflammation in sepsis and SLE. In this study, we demonstrate that phthiocol, a vitamin K analog and AhR ligand, ameliorates hyperinflammation and improves outcomes in both cecal ligation and puncture (CLP)-induced sepsis and Fcgr2b-/- lupus mouse models. Phthiocol-treated bone-marrow-derived dendritic cells (BM-cDCs) displayed a tolerogenic-like phenotype with increased IL-10 and CD206 expression, and promoted regulatory T cell (Treg) proliferation and IL-10 production, while suppressing IL-17-producing T cell responses. Phthiocol induced M2-like polarization in bone-marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) with high IL-10 production, in contrast to other AhR ligands, including 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and 6-Formylindolo[3,2-b]carbazole (FICZ) that induced M1 polarization. Chromatin immunoprecipitation confirmed AhR binding to the Il10 promoter, revealing direct transcriptional regulation. Furthermore, phthiocol reprogrammed macrophage metabolism by enhancing oxidative phosphorylation and suppressing glycolysis. These immunoregulatory and metabolic effects were abrogated by an AhR antagonist, confirming AhR dependency. Notably, phthiocol exerted similar immunoregulatory effects in activated human monocyte-derived dendritic cells and macrophages, indicating translational potential. Together, these findings position phthiocol as a selective AhR ligand with therapeutic promise for controlling inflammation and restoring immune homeostasis in inflammatory diseases.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
For aquaculture to be sustainable, it is very important to improve the growth rates of farmed fish by choosing the right species and their management. However, the integration of epigenetic markers in selective breeding programs remains underdeveloped, mainly due to limited understanding, particularly regarding DNA methylation's heritability and its functional impact on growth traits. This gap is even more pronounced in mitochondrial epigenetics, despite mitochondria's critical role in energy production and growth regulation, making it an important but underexplored area in aquaculture breeding strategies. The present study aimed to explore the relationship between differential mitogenome methylation and its role in growth rates and sexual dimorphism in Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus). Nanopore sequencing was employed to compare mtDNA methylation patterns between fast- and slow-growing individuals, as well as between sexes. We found significant differences in mtDNA methylation, with males exhibiting higher growth rates and distinct methylation patterns in genes related to the electron transport chain, such as ND5, ATP6 and CYTB. This suggests a link between mitochondrial function and growth. Moreover, several differentially methylated sites were identified, including hypomethylation in genes associated with oxidative phosphorylation, which correlated with increased growth. Notably, larger individuals showed significant hypomethylation in ND5, ND6 and COX1, potentially enhancing ATP production. The differentially methylated positions across mitogenome may drive enhanced growth by optimizing mitochondrial function for higher energy output. Our study provides valuable insights for selective breeding programs to enhance growth traits, emphasizing the need for future research on the functional role of these epigenetic changes in sustainable aquaculture.Copyright © 2025 Tripathy, Siriyappagouder, Nedoluzhko, Konstantinidis, Dash, Behera, Parhi, Skjærven, Piferrer and Fernandes.
New methylene blue (NMB) is a phenothiazine dye with recognized photodynamic properties. This study evaluated both light-dependent and intrinsic (light-independent) effects of NMB on mitochondrial function, hepatic metabolism, and cell viability using three models: isolated rat liver mitochondria, ex vivo perfused rat liver, and HepG2 cells. In isolated mitochondria, NMB uncoupled oxidative phosphorylation, decreasing the respiratory control (RC) and ADP/O ratios, even without irradiation. It increased inner membrane permeability, inferred from enhanced oxidation of exogenous NADH, and inhibited mitochondrial swelling. Red-light irradiation exacerbated these effects, leading to inhibition of respiratory chain complexes and FoF1-ATP synthase, along with reduced catalase and glutathione reductase activities and depletion of GSH. Oxidative damage was confirmed by elevated lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation. In perfused liver, NMB disrupted oxygen consumption linked to ATP synthesis and impaired energy-dependent processes such as gluconeogenesis and ammonia detoxification, particularly under fasting. These effects correlated with decreased ATP/ADP and ATP/AMP ratios, potentially impairing pyruvate carboxylase and carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I. In livers from fed rats, NMB stimulated glycolysis and glycogenolysis, while in fasting conditions it also enhanced fructolysis-likely as a compensatory response to mitochondrial dysfunction. Additionally, NMB-mediated NADH oxidation may raise NAD+ availability and support citric acid cycle activity. Membrane destabilization and enzyme leakage occurred even without light, indicating strong intrinsic cytotoxicity. Red-light exposure further intensified hepatic damage, likely due to in situ activation of the photosensitizer. In HepG2 cells, NMB reduced cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner, with no significant difference between irradiated and non-irradiated conditions-highlighting a pronounced dark toxicity. These results demonstrate that NMB impairs mitochondrial function and hepatic metabolism through both photodynamic and non-photodynamic mechanisms. Given the consistent toxicity across all models, including in the absence of light, NMB's therapeutic potential as a photosensitizer appears limited, warranting careful toxicological assessment before clinical application.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-induced myocardial injury is age-related and leads to increased mortality. Considering the importance of mitochondrial dysfunction in cardiac impairment, we aimed to investigate whether aging exacerbates the cardiac mitochondrial metabolic response to inflammation, thus leading to increased cardiac dysfunction in the elderly. Cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) was conducted in young adult (12-18 weeks) and aged (19-21 months) male C57BL/6 mice. Cardiac function was detected 20 h post-CLP. Additionally, cardiomyocytes isolated from young adult and aged male mice were used for assessments of mitochondrial respiratory function +/- TNFα or LPS. Protein levels of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), NADPH oxidase (NOX)2, NOX4, phosphor-STAT3 and STAT3 were determined in mouse hearts 24 h post-CLP and in cardiomyocytes following inflammatory stimuli. CLP significantly reduced cardiac contractility in both young and aged mice, with a higher incidence and greater severity of cardiac functional depression in the older group. Mitochondrial respiratory capacity was decreased in cardiomyocytes derived from aged mice, with increased susceptible to inflammatory toxic effects compared to those from young adult mice. The age-dependent changes were observed in myocardial OXPHOS complexes and NOX4. Importantly, CLP led to a significant increase in OXPHOS protein levels in the hearts of older mice, suggesting a possible compensatory response to decreased mitochondrial metabolic function and a greater potential for reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Our findings highlight that the response of aging-impaired mitochondria to inflammation may underlie the worsened cardiac functional depression in the aged group during sepsis.
Depletion of ATP is a promising strategy for controlling or killing pests, pathogens, and cancer cells. In eukaryotic cells, mitochondrial F1Fo-ATP synthase plays a central role in oxidative phosphorylation and has therefore been considered as a suitable target for this strategy against pests, pathogenic fungi, and some cancer cells. Membrane-embedded Atp9 (subunit c) is a crucial subunit of the F1Fo-ATP synthase ring oligomer (c-ring) that, together with Atp6, directly mediates proton translocation, which drives ATP synthesis. Substitution of the proton-binding residue of Atp9, i.e., glutamic acid, with glutamine abrogates ATP synthase function. Importantly, a single mutated Atp9 subunit in the c-ring is sufficient for inactivation. We hypothesized, therefore, that heterologous expression of mutant Atp9 in cells would result in the assembly of a nonfunctional complex and, consequently, depletion of ATP. Using a yeast model system, we verified the hypothesis through a series of biochemical analyses and thus validated this approach as a strategy for depleting intracellular ATP in target cells and organisms.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40647540 is a review article
L-Citrulline (L-Cit), a non-essential amino acid, is characterized by its unique extrahepatic metabolism, which significantly enhances the bioavailability of arginine metabolism in tissues. This study investigated the impact of L-Cit supplementation on ruminal microbiota composition, plasma metabolites, reproductive hormones, and antioxidant capacity in Hu ewes. Sixty non-pregnant Hu ewes, similar in age and parity, with an average body weight of 47 ± 5.05 kg, were randomly assigned to either a Control group or Experimental group. The Control group received a basal diet, while the Experimental group was supplemented with 10 g/d of L-Cit in addition to the basal diet for 65 days. Compared to the Control group, the Experimental group exhibited a significantly higher estrus rate. Plasma estradiol (E2) levels were significantly reduced (p < 0.01), while luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) concentrations showed significant increases (p < 0.05). Testosterone (T) content was also significantly elevated (p < 0.01). Plasma levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), catalase (CAT), and total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) were significantly higher in the experimental group, with highly significant differences (p < 0.01). The 16S rRNA sequencing analysis revealed that at the phylum level, the relative abundance of Bacteroidetes was decreased, while that of Firmicutes was increased in the experimental group. At the family level, the relative abundance of norank_o__Clostridia_UCG-014 was significantly increased. At the genus level, the relative abundance of Prevotellaceae_UCG-003 was significantly decreased. The main enriched pathways in the CON group were identified as Lipoic acid metabolism and Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism. The main enriched pathways in the experimental group were identified as Prion diseases, Chlorocyclohexane and chlorobenzene degradation, Chloroalkane and chloroalkene degradation, Biofilm formation-Escherichia coli, and Phosphotransferase system (PTS). LC-MS analysis indicated significant upregulation of pathways such as drug metabolism by other enzymes, folate biosynthesis, and valine, leucine, and isoleucine biosynthesis, whereas oxidative phosphorylation and propanoate metabolism were significantly downregulated. These results demonstrate that L-Cit supplementation in the diet modulates the ruminal microbiota of Hu ewes, optimizing volatile fatty acid (VFA) proportions, enhancing carbohydrate metabolism, improving xenobiotic degradation capacity, stimulating the synthesis and release of reproductive hormones. Ultimately, these coordinated effects led to a synergistic increase in estrus and conception rates.Copyright © 2025 Liu, Li, Fan, Wang, Liu, Zhao and Yang.
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a paradigm for mitochondrial retinopathy because of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations. However, the mechanism underlying LHON-linked mtDNA mutations, especially their impact on mitochondrial and cellular integrity, is not well understood. Recently, the ND1 3733G>C (p.E143Q) mutation was identified in three Chinese pedigrees with LHON. In this study, we investigated the pathogenic mechanism of m.3733G>C mutation using cybrids generated by fusing mtDNA-less ρ0 cells with enucleated cells from a Chinese patient carrying the m.3733G>C mutation and control subject. Molecular dynamics simulations showed that p.E143Q mutation destabilized these interactions between residues E143 and S110/Y114 or between S141 and W290 in the ND1. Its impact of ND1 structure and function was further evidenced by reduced levels of ND1 in mutant cells. The m.3733G>C mutation caused defective assembly and activity of complex I, respiratory deficiency, diminished mitochondrial ATP production, and increased production of reactive oxygen species in the mutant cybrids carrying the m.3733G>C mutation. These mitochondrial dysfunctions regulated mitochondrial quality control via mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy. The m.3733G>C mutation-induced dysfunction yielded elevating mitochondrial localization of DRP1, decreasing network connectivity, and increasing fission with abnormal morphologies. Furthermore, the m.3733G>C mutation downregulated ubiquitin-dependent mitophagy pathway, evidenced by decreasing the levels of Parkin and PINK1, but not ubiquitin-independent mitophagy pathway. The m.3733G>C mutation-induced deficiencies reshaped the cellular homeostasis via impairing autophagy process and promoting intrinsic apoptosis. Our findings provide new insights into pathophysiology of LHON arising from the m.3733G>C mutation-induced mitochondrial dysfunctions and reprograming organocellular and cellular homeostasis.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mitochondrial gene expression needs to be balanced with cytosolic translation to produce oxidative phosphorylation complexes. In yeast, translational feedback loops involving lowly expressed proteins called translational activators help to achieve this balance. Synthesis of cytochrome b (Cytb or COB), a core subunit of complex III in the respiratory chain, is controlled by three translational activators and the assembly factor Cbp3-Cbp6. However, the molecular interface between the COB translational feedback loop and complex III assembly is yet unknown. Here, using protein-proximity mapping combined with selective mitoribosome profiling, we reveal the components and dynamics of the molecular switch controlling COB translation. Specifically, we demonstrate that Mrx4, a previously uncharacterized ligand of the mitoribosomal polypeptide tunnel exit, interacts with either the assembly factor Cbp3-Cbp6 or with the translational activator Cbs2. These reciprocal interactions determine whether the translational activator complex with bound COB messenger RNA (mRNA) can interact with the mRNA channel exit on the small ribosomal subunit for translation initiation. Organization of the feedback loop at the tunnel exit therefore orchestrates mitochondrial translation with respiratory chain biogenesis.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic immune-mediated disorder characterized by intestinal inflammation, with frequent progression to complications including intestinal stenosis, obstruction, and perforation. The sustained inflammatory burden and gastrointestinal bleeding in IBD culminate in systemic iron depletion, predisposing patients to iron deficiency anemia (IDA). Here, we report a rationally engineered nanozyme, Radix Paeoniae Alba polysaccharide‑iron complexes (PPFeCs), designed to integrate superoxide dismutase-/catalase-mimicking antioxidase activities with bioavailable iron delivery for simultaneous management of IBD and its IDA comorbidity. Experimental results demonstrated that PPFeCs alleviated dextran sulfate sodium-induced colonic inflammation, strengthened epithelial barrier integrity through upregulation of tight junction proteins, and ameliorated systemic iron deficiency by restoring hemoglobin levels, thereby confirming their therapeutic potential for treating IBD-IDA comorbidity. Mechanistically, PPFeCs reprogrammed macrophage glucose metabolism by shifting the balance from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation through Phosphoinositide 3-kinas/Protein kinase B (PI3K/Akt) pathway modulation. This metabolic switch synergized with Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) signaling inhibition to drive macrophage polarization from pro-inflammatory M1 to anti-inflammatory M2 phenotypes, thereby breaking the vicious cycle of inflammation and oxidative stress. Our findings not only elucidate the multifaceted therapeutic mechanisms of PPFeCs but also lay the groundwork for developing polysaccharide-metal-based nanozymes for treating IBD and its associated complications.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oxidative stress plays a critical role in regulating sperm function, yet species-specific antioxidant mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study compared hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) tolerance in horse and human sperm and investigated the roles of catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in horses. A H2O2 dose-response assay (0-2000 µM) showed that horse sperm were significantly more resistant to oxidative damage, with an IC50 for progressive motility over 14-fold higher than that of human sperm (391.6 µM vs. 27.3 µM). Horse sperm also accumulated more intracellular H2O2 without loss of motility or viability. DNA damage assays (Halo and SCSA) revealed H2O2-induced fragmentation in human but not horse sperm. Enzyme inhibition experiments in horse sperm using 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (catalase inhibitor) and (1S,3R)-RSL3 (GPx inhibitor) at 250 µM H2O2 showed that catalase inhibition severely impaired motility and increased intracellular H2O2 > 100-fold, while GPx inhibition had a milder effect (~5-fold increase). Immunocytochemistry localized catalase to the sperm head, particularly the post-acrosomal region, challenging the notion that sperm lack peroxisomes. The dependence of horse sperm on oxidative phosphorylation may drive the need for enhanced antioxidant defenses. These findings reveal species-specific oxidative stress adaptations and highlight catalase as a key antioxidant in equine sperm.
Respiratory complex I plays a central role in cellular energy production in bacteria and mitochondria. Its dysfunction is implicated in many human neurodegenerative diseases, as well as in aging. The crystal structure of the hydrophilic domain (peripheral arm) of complex I from Thermus thermophilus has been solved at 3.3 angstrom resolution. This subcomplex consists of eight subunits and contains all the redox centers of the enzyme, including nine iron-sulfur clusters. The primary electron acceptor, flavin-mononucleotide, is within electron transfer distance of cluster N3, leading to the main redox pathway, and of the distal cluster N1a, a possible antioxidant. The structure reveals new aspects of the mechanism and evolution of the enzyme. The terminal cluster N2 is coordinated, uniquely, by two consecutive cysteines. The novel subunit Nqo15 has a similar fold to the mitochondrial iron chaperone frataxin, and it may be involved in iron-sulfur cluster regeneration in the complex.
The hydrophilic domain (peripheral arm) of the proton-translocating NADH:quinone oxidoreductase (complex I) from the thermophilic organism Thermus thermophilus HB8 has been purified and characterized. The subcomplex is stable in sodium dodecyl sulfate up to 80 degrees C. Of nine iron-sulfur clusters, four to five (one or two binuclear and three tetranuclear) could be detected by EPR in the NADH-reduced enzyme. The preparation consists of eight different polypeptides. Seven of them have been positively identified by peptide mass mapping and N-terminal sequencing as known hydrophilic subunits of T. thermophilus complex I. The eighth polypeptide copurified with the subcomplex at all stages, is strongly associated with the other subunits, and is present in crystals of the subcomplex, used for X-ray data collection. Therefore, it has been identified as a novel complex I subunit and named Nqo15. It is encoded in a locus separate from the nqo operon, containing the 14 other known complex I genes. ORFs encoding Nqo15 homologues are present in the genomes of the closest relatives of T. thermophilus. Our data show that, contrary to previous assumptions, bacterial complex I can contain proteins in addition to a "core" complement of 14 subunits.
In addition to a wide range of adverse effects on human health, toxic metals such as cadmium, arsenic and nickel can also promote carcinogenesis. The toxicological properties of these metals are partly related to generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that can induce DNA damage and trigger redox-dependent transcription factors. The precise mechanisms that induce oxidative stress are not fully understood. Further, it is not yet known whether chronic exposures to low doses of arsenic, cadmium or other metals are sufficient to induce mutations in vivo, leading to DNA repair responses and/or tumorigenesis. Oxidative stress can also be induced by environmental xenobiotics, when certain metabolites are generated that lead to the continuous release of superoxide, as long as the capacity to reduce the resulting dions (quinones) into hydroquinones is maintained. However, the specific significance of superoxide-dependent pathways to carcinogenesis is often difficult to address, because formation of DNA adducts by mutagenic metabolites can occur in parallel. Here, we will review both mechanisms and toxicological consequences of oxidative stress triggered by metals and dietary or environmental pollutants in general. Besides causing DNA damage, ROS may further induce multiple intracellular signaling pathways, notably NF-kB, JNK/SAPK/p38, as well as Erk/MAPK. These signaling routes can lead to transcriptional induction of target genes that could promote proliferation or confer apoptosis resistance to exposed cells. The significance of these additional modes depends on tissue, cell-type and is often masked by alternate oncogenic mechanisms being activated in parallel.
Skipped: PubMed ID 22705365 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 32033297 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 33864199 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 23510327 is a review article
Excessive generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is considered to play an important role in arsenic-induced carcinogenicity in the liver, lungs, and urinary bladder. However, little is known about the mechanism of ROS-based carcinogenicity, including where the ROS are generated, and which arsenic species are the most effective ROS inducers. In order to better understand the mechanism of arsenic toxicity, rat liver RLC-16 cells were exposed to arsenite (iAs(III)) and its intermediate metabolites [i.e., monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)) and dimethylarsinous acid (DMA(III))]. MMA(III) (IC(50) = 1 μM) was found to be the most toxic form, followed by DMA(III) (IC(50) = 2 μM) and iAs(III) (IC(50) = 18 μM). Following exposure to MMA(III), ROS were found to be generated primarily in the mitochondria. DMA(III) exposure resulted in ROS generation in other organelles, while no ROS generation was seen following exposures to low levels of iAs(III). This suggests the mechanisms of induction of ROS are different among the three arsenicals. The effects of iAs(III), MMA(III), and DMA(III) on activities of complexes I-IV in the electron transport chain (ETC) of rat liver submitochondrial particles and on the stimulation of ROS production in intact mitochondria were also studied. Activities of complexes II and IV were significantly inhibited by MMA(III), but only the activity of complexes II was inhibited by DMA(III). Incubation with iAs(III) had no inhibitory effects on any of the four complexes. Generation of ROS in intact mitochondria was significantly increased following incubation with MMA(III), while low levels of ROS generation were observed following incubation with DMA(III). ROS was not produced in mitochondria following exposure to iAs(III). The mechanism underlying cell death is different among As(III), MMA(III), and DMA(III), with mitochondria being one of the primary target organelles for MMA(III)-induced cytotoxicity.© 2011 American Chemical Society
Skipped: PubMed ID 23583964 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 28179585 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 21414382 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16430879 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 32731582 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 28860815 is a review article
Many studies have found a positive association between the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma and DDT exposure. These studies mainly focus on the effect of DDT exposure on cell proliferation and epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) promotion. However, the influence of DDT on cell adhesion of hepatocellular carcinoma remains to be unclear. The aim of our study was to determine the effect of p,p'-DDT on cell adhesion of hepatocellular carcinoma in vitro and in vivo. The data showed that p,p'-DDT, exposing HepG2 cells for 6 days, decreased cell-cell adhesion and elevated cell-matrix adhesion. Strikingly, p,p'-DDT increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) content, and this was accompanied by the activation of JAK/STAT3 pathway. Moreover, ROS inhibitor supplement reversed these effects significantly. However, the addition of ER inhibitor, ICI, had no effect on the p,p'-DDT-induced effects. p,p'-DDT altered the mRNA levels of related adhesion molecules, including inhibition of E-cadherin and promotion of N-cadherin along with CD29. Interestingly, the p,p'-DDT-altered adhesion molecules could be reversed with JAK inhibitor or STAT3 inhibitor. Likewise, p,p'-DDT stimulated the JAK/STAT3 pathway in nude mice, as well as altered the mRNA levels of E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and CD29. Taken together, these results indicate that p,p'-DDT profoundly promotes the adhesion process by decreasing cell-cell adhesion and inducing cell-matrix adhesion via the ROS-mediated JAK/STAT3 pathway. All these events account for the carcinogenic potential of p,p'-DDT in liver.Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 20370557 is a review article
DNA adduct formation is thought to be a major cause of DNA damage by carcinogenic aromatic amines. We investigated the ability of an aromatic amine, 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP) and its N-hydroxy metabolite (4-ABP(NHOH)) to cause oxidative DNA damage, using (32)P-labeled human DNA fragments from the p53 tumor suppressor gene and the c-Ha-ras-1 protooncogene. 4-ABP(NHOH) was found to cause Cu(II)-mediated DNA damage, especially at thymine residues. Addition of the endogenous reductant NADH led to dramatic enhancement of this process. Catalase and bathocuproine, a Cu(I)-specific chelator, reduced the amount of DNA damage, suggesting the involvement of H(2)O(2) and Cu(I). 4-ABP(NHOH) dose-dependently induced 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) formation in the presence of Cu(ll) and NADH. 4-ABP(NHOH) conversion to nitrosobiphenyl, as measured by UV-visible spectroscopy, occurred rapidly in the presence of Cu(II), suggesting Cu(II)-mediated autoxidation. Increased amounts of 8-OHdG were found in HL-60 cells compared to the H(2)O(2)-resistant clone HP100 following 4-ABP(NHOH) treatment, further supporting the involvement of H(2)O(2). The present study demonstrates that an N-hydroxy derivative of 4-ABP induces oxidative DNA damage through H(2)O(2) in both a cell-free system and in cultured human cells. We conclude that, in addition to DNA adduct formation, oxidative DNA damage may play an important role in the carcinogenic process of 4-ABP.
The hydroxyl radical ((*)OH) has been considered to be one of the most reactive oxygen species produced in biological systems. It has been shown that (*)OH can cause DNA, protein, and lipid oxidation. One of the most widely accepted mechanisms for (*)OH production is through the transition metal-catalyzed Fenton reaction. Pentachlorophenol (PCP) was one of the most widely used biocides, primarily for wood preservation. PCP is now ubiquitously present in our environment and even found in people who are not occupationally exposed to it. PCP has been listed as a priority pollutant by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and classified as a group 2B environmental carcinogen by the International Association for Research on Cancer (IARC). The genotoxicity of PCP has been attributed to its two major quinoid metabolites: tetrachlorohydroquinone and tetrachloro-1,4-benzoquinone (TCBQ). Although the redox cycling of PCP quinoid metabolites to generate reactive oxygen species is believed to play an important role, the exact molecular mechanism underlying PCP genotoxicity is not clear. Using the salicylate hydroxylation assay and electron spin resonance (ESR) secondary spin-trapping methods, we found that (*)OH can be produced by TCBQ and H(2)O(2) independent of transition metal ions. Further studies showed that TCBQ, but not its corresponding semiquinone radical, the tetrachlorosemiquinone radical (TCSQ(*)), is essential for (*)OH production. The major reaction product between TCBQ and H(2)O(2) was identified to be trichloro-hydroxy-1,4-benzoquinone (TrCBQ-OH), and H(2)O(2) was found to be the source and origin of the oxygen atom inserted into this reaction product. On the basis of these data, we propose that (*)OH production by TCBQ and H(2)O(2) is not through a semiquinone-dependent organic Fenton reaction but rather through the following novel mechanism: a nucleophilic attack of H(2)O(2) to TCBQ, leading to the formation of an unstable trichloro-hydroperoxyl-1,4-benzoquinone (TrCBQ-OOH) intermediate, which decomposes homolytically to produce (*)OH. These findings represent a novel mechanism of (*)OH formation not requiring the involvement of redox-active transition metal ions and may partly explain the potential carcinogenicity of the widely used biocides such as PCP and other polyhalogenated aromatic compounds.
Skipped: PubMed ID 22166497 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 32977499 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 23066403 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 9118888 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 11978484 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 27919191 is a review article
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are suspect human lung carcinogens and can be metabolically activated to remote quinones, for example, benzo[a]pyrene-1,6-dione (B[a]P-1,6-dione) and B[a]P-3,6-dione by the action of either P450 monooxygenase or peroxidases, and to non-K region o-quinones, for example B[a]P-7,8-dione, by the action of aldo keto reductases (AKRs). B[a]P-7,8-dione also structurally resembles 4-hydroxyequilenin o-quinone. These three classes of quinones can redox cycle, generate reactive oxygen species (ROS), and produce the mutagenic lesion 8-oxo-dGuo and may contribute to PAH- and estrogen-induced carcinogenesis. We compared the ability of a complete panel of human recombinant AKRs to catalyze the reduction of PAH o-quinones in the phenanthrene, chrysene, pyrene, and anthracene series. The specific activities for NADPH-dependent quinone reduction were often 100-1000 times greater than the ability of the same AKR isoform to oxidize the cognate PAH-trans-dihydrodiol. However, the AKR with the highest quinone reductase activity for a particular PAH o-quinone was not always identical to the AKR isoform with the highest dihydrodiol dehydrogenase activity for the respective PAH-trans-dihydrodiol. Discrete AKRs also catalyzed the reduction of B[a]P-1,6-dione, B[a]P-3,6-dione, and 4-hydroxyequilenin o-quinone. Concurrent measurements of oxygen consumption, superoxide anion, and hydrogen peroxide formation established that ROS were produced as a result of the redox cycling. When compared with human recombinant NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1) and carbonyl reductases (CBR1 and CBR3), NQO1 was a superior catalyst of these reactions followed by AKRs and last CBR1 and CBR3. In A549 cells, two-electron reduction of PAH o-quinones causes intracellular ROS formation. ROS formation was unaffected by the addition of dicumarol, suggesting that NQO1 is not responsible for the two-electron reduction observed and does not offer protection against ROS formation from PAH o-quinones.© 2011 American Chemical Society
Skipped: PubMed ID 25279998 is a review article
Procarcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) induce their own metabolism and activation by binding to the cytosolic aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), which then translocates to the nucleus and activates CYP1A1 gene transcription via xenobiotic response elements (XREs). Although the AhR demonstrates a strict specificity for planar aromatics, nonplanar (+/-)-trans-7,8-dihydroxy-7,8-dihydrobenzo(a)pyrene also induced CYP1A1 expression in HepG2 cells over a delayed timecourse (approximately 6-12 h), suggesting a requirement for (+/-)trans-7,8-dihydrobenzo(a)pyrene metabolism. Aldo-keto reductase (AKR) inhibitors blocked this effect, suggesting that benzo(a)pyrene-7,8-dione (BPQ), a planar PAH o-quinone generated by AKRs, was the downstream inducer. BPQ was found to be a potent and rapid inducer of CYP1A1, with an EC50 value in HepG2 cells identical to that of the parent benzo(a)pyrene. BPQ was a more potent inducer of CYP1A1 when compared with the 1,6-, 3,6-, and 6,12-benzo(a)pyrene-diones. Multiple PAH o-quinones caused induction of CYP1A1, demonstrating that this was a general property of AKR-generated PAH o-quinones. HepG2-101L cells stably transfected with a XRE-luciferase construct showed that BPQ activated CYP1A1 transcription via a XRE-dependent mechanism. BPQ failed to induce CYP1A1 in AhR-deficient and AhR nuclear translocator-deficient murine hepatoma cell lines and confirmed that induction of CYP1A1 was AhR and AhR nuclear translocator-dependent. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated the specific appearance of BPQ-activated AhR in the nucleus, and immunofluorescence studies confirmed that BPQ mediated nuclear translocation of the AhR. Classical bifunctional inducers elevate CYP1A1 expression via a XRE and are subsequently converted by CYP1A1 to electrophiles that induce phase II enzymes via an electrophilic response element/antioxidant response element PAH o-quinones represent a novel class of bifunctional inducer because they are electrophiles produced by phase II enzymes that simultaneously induce phase I enzymes via a XRE and phase II enzymes via a electrophilic response element/antioxidant response element (see also M. E. Burczynski et al., Cancer Res., 59: 607-614, 1999). This study shows that the AhR provides the only known mechanism by which genotoxic PAH o-quinones generated in the cytosol can be targeted to the nucleus with specificity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 15963346 is a review article
Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene), a naturally occurring phytoalexin present in grapes and other foods, has been reported to possess chemopreventive effects as revealed by its striking inhibition of diverse cellular events associated with tumor initiation, promotion and progression. In our present study, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), when treated with the cultured human mammary epithelial (MCF-10A) cells, induced the expression of cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1) and 1B1 (CYP1B1) that are responsible for the oxidation of 17beta-estradiol to produce catechol estrogens. Resveratrol strongly inhibited the TCDD-induced aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) DNA binding activity, the expression of CYP1A1 and CYP1B1 and their catalytic activities in MCF-10A cells. It also reduced the formation of 2-hydroxyestradiol and 4-hydroxyestradiol from 17beta-estradiol by recombinant human CYP1A1 and CYP1B1, respectively. Furthermore, resveratrol significantly attenuated the intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation and oxidative DNA damage as well as the cytotoxicity induced by the catechol estrogens. Our data suggest that CYP1A1- and CYP1B1-catalyzed catechol estrogen formation might play a key role in TCDD-induced oxidative damage, and resveratrol can act as a potential chemopreventive against dioxin-induced human mammary carcinogenesis by blocking the metabolic formation of the catechol estrogens and scavenging the ROS generated during their redox cycling.
Skipped: PubMed ID 16684662 is a review article
Cancer is a disease that begins with mutation of critical genes: oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. Our research on carcinogenic aromatic hydrocarbons indicates that depurinating hydrocarbon-DNA adducts generate oncogenic mutations found in mouse skin papillomas (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92:10422, 1995). These mutations arise by mis-replication of unrepaired apurinic sites derived from the loss of depurinating adducts. This relationship led us to postulate that oxidation of the carcinogenic 4-hydroxy catechol estrogens (CE) of estrone (E1) and estradiol (E2) to catechol estrogen-3,4-quinones (CE-3, 4-Q) results in electrophilic intermediates that covalently bind to DNA to form depurinating adducts. The resultant apurinic sites in critical genes can generate mutations that may initiate various human cancers. The noncarcinogenic 2-hydroxy CE are oxidized to CE-2,3-Q and form only stable DNA adducts. As reported here, the CE-3,4-Q were bound to DNA in vitro to form the depurinating adduct 4-OHE1(E2)-1(alpha,beta)-N7Gua at 59-213 micromol/mol DNA-phosphate whereas the level of stable adducts was 0.1 micromol/mol DNA-phosphate. In female Sprague-Dawley rats treated by intramammillary injection of E2-3,4-Q (200 nmol) at four mammary glands, the mammary tissue contained 2.3 micromol 4-OHE2-1(alpha, beta)-N7Gua/molDNA-phosphate. When 4-OHE1(E2) were activated by horseradish peroxidase, lactoperoxidase, or cytochrome P450, 87-440 micromol of 4-OHE1(E2)-1(alpha, beta)-N7Gua was formed. After treatment with 4-OHE2, rat mammary tissue contained 1.4 micromol of adduct/mol DNA-phosphate. In each case, the level of stable adducts was negligible. These results, complemented by other data, strongly support the hypothesis that CE-3,4-Q are endogenous tumor initiators.
Skipped: PubMed ID 9472688 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 19387921 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15603755 is a review article
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widespread as flame-retardants in different types of consumer products. PBDEs present in the air or dust and their inhalation can damage human health by influencing the respiratory system. We evaluated the effects of environment relevant concentrations (0.01-1  μM) of PBDE-47, PBDE-99 and PBDE-209 on the mechanism of oxidative stress, dysregulation of cell proliferation, apoptosis, and DNA damage and repair (in term of H2AX phosphorylation ser139) in an in-vitro/ex-vivo model of bronchial epithelial cells. PBDEs (-47, -99 and -209) at the environment relevant concentrations (0.01 and 1  μM) induce oxidative stress (in term of NOX-4 expression as well as ROS and JC-1 production), activate the mechanism of DNA-damage and repair affecting Olive Tail length (comet assay) production and H2AX phosphorylation (ser139) in normal human bronchial epithelial cells. Furthermore PBDEs, although do not affect cell viability, induce cell apoptosis and single cell capacity to grow into a colony (like a cancer phenotype) in bronchial epithelial cells. Finally, PBDE-47 had a greater effect than -99 and -209. PBDE-47, -99 and -209 congeners exert cytotoxic and genotoxic effects, and play a critical role in the dysregulation of oxidative stress, damaging DNA and the related gene expression in bronchial epithelial cells. Our findings might suggest that PBDEs inhalation might have adverse effect on human health regarding pulmonary diseases in the areas of environmental pollution.Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 33907575 is a review article
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer affecting women in North America and Europe. More than 85% of breast cancers are sporadic and attributable to long-term exposure to small quantities of multiple carcinogens. To understand how multiple carcinogens act together to induce cellular carcinogenesis, we studied the activity of environmental carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) and benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P), and dietary carcinogen 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) using our breast cell carcinogenesis model. Our study revealed, for the first time, that combined NNK and B[a]P enhanced breast cell carcinogenesis chronically induced by PhIP in both non-cancerous and cancerous breast cells. Co-exposure was more potent than sequential exposure to combined NNK and B[a]P followed by PhIP in inducing carcinogenesis. Initiation of carcinogenesis was measured by transient endpoints induced in a single exposure, while progression of carcinogenesis was measured by acquisition of constitutive endpoints in cumulative exposures. Transient endpoints included DNA damage, Ras-Erk-Nox pathway activation, reactive oxygen species elevation, and increased cellular proliferation. Constitutive endpoints included various cancer-associated properties and signaling modulators, as well as enrichment of cancer stem-like cell population and activation of the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition program. Using transient and constitutive endpoints as targets, we detected that a combination of the green tea catechins ECG and EGCG, at non-cytotoxic levels, was more effective than individual agents in intervention of cellular carcinogenesis induced by combined NNK, B[a]P, and PhIP. Thus, use of combined ECG and EGCG should be seriously considered for early intervention of breast cell carcinogenesis associated with long-term exposure to environmental and dietary carcinogens.
Most breast cancers occur sporadically due to long-term exposure to low-dose carcinogens in the diet and the environment. Specifically, smoke, polluted air, and high-temperature cooked meats comprise multiple carcinogens, such as 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), benzo[α]pyrene (B[α]P), and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP). We sought to determine if these carcinogens act together to induce breast cell carcinogenesis, and if so, whether noncytotoxic dietary agents could intervene. We demonstrated that coexposure to physiologically achievable doses of NNK, B[α]P, and PhIP (NBP) holistically enhanced initiation and progression of breast cell carcinogenesis. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and activation of the ERK pathway were transiently induced by NBP in each exposure, and cross talk between reinforced ROS elevation and ERK activation played an essential role in increased DNA oxidation and damage. After cumulative exposures to NBP, this cross talk contributed to enhanced initiation of cellular carcinogenesis and led to enhanced acquisition of cancer-associated properties. Using NBP-induced transient changes, such as ROS elevation and ERK pathway activation, and cancer-associated properties as targeted endpoints, we revealed, for the first time, that two less-studied dietary compounds, ergosterol and mimosine, at physiologically achievable noncytotoxic levels, were highly effective in intervention of NBP-induced cellular carcinogenesis. Combined ergosterol and mimosine were more effective than individual agents in blocking NBP-induced transient endpoints, including ROS-mediated DNA oxidation, which accounted for their preventive ability to suppress progression of NBP-induced cellular carcinogenesis. Thus, dietary components, such as mushrooms containing ergosterol and legumes containing mimosine, should be considered for affordable prevention of sporadic breast cancer associated with long-term exposure to environmental and dietary carcinogens.Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 30327380 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 32358622 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 29449774 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 28881698 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15769673 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 28835450 is a review article
Protein kinase D (PKD) participates in activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB (nuclear factor kappaB) in cells exposed to oxidative stress, leading to increased cellular survival. We previously demonstrated that phosphorylation of PKD at Tyr463 in the PH (pleckstrin homology) domain is mediated by the Src-Abl pathway and that it is necessary for PKD activation and subsequent NF-kappaB induction. Here we show that activation of PKD in response to oxidative stress requires two sequential signaling events, i.e., phosphorylation of Tyr463 by Abl, which in turn promotes a second step, phosphorylation of the PKD activation loop (Ser738/Ser742). We show that this is mediated by PKCdelta (protein kinase Cdelta), a kinase that is activated by Src in response to oxidative stress. We also show that other PKCs, including PKCepsilon and PKCzeta, do not participate in PKD activation or NF-kappaB induction. We propose a model in which two coordinated signaling events are required for PKD activation. Tyrosine phosphorylation in the PH domain at Tyr463, mediated by the Src-Abl pathway, which in turn facilitates the phosphorylation of Ser738/Ser742 in the activation loop, mediated by the Src-PKCdelta pathway. Once active, the signal is relayed to the activation of NF-kappaB in oxidative stress responses.
Skipped: PubMed ID 24998536 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 32336668 is a review article
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 31283132
