In Malaysia, the study on autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is limited. Most studies only focus on gene neuroligin 3 (NLGN3), NLGN4X, neurexin 1 (NRXN1) and SH3. This study focuses on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) that was believed to have a significant effect on ASD. In this study, potential compounds and drugs that can restore receptor function in autistic patients were analysed. This research used an effective in silico method known as drug-repurposing to discover and rediscover drugs and analyse the binding of potential compounds or drugs to the NMDA receptor. AMPA and DOCK4 were used as controls in this study. Using a trusted server, Drug ReposER, 13 potential compounds or drugs that bind to NMDAR were identified. Then, proceed to the docking of potential compounds or drugs that bind to the NMDA receptor using Autodock Vina, Autodock, Hdock and CB dock and three drugs were selected that have the best binding score to NMDA, AMPA and DOCK4. The drugs were alitretinoin, salicylic acid and indinavir, respectively. Next, molecular dynamics simulations were performed with all selected compounds to study drug-protein binding, with detailed analysis of bond stability using root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF) oscillations. Finally, ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion and Toxicity) predictions identify 4-androstenedione, tryptophan, carbocisteine and vitamin A as having minimal toxic effects. This study showed that alitretinoin, which was known to treat skin lesions from Kaposi's sarcoma, might have the ability to reverse the effect in ASD, particularly in NMDA receptors, potentially making a significant impact on the field of neurology and psychiatry.© Penerbit Universiti Sains Malaysia, 2025.
Neurexins are presynaptic plasma membrane proteins that regulate key aspects of synapse physiology through the formation of transcellular complexes with postsynaptic ligands, including neuroligins (Nlgns). Each neurexin gene (NRXN1-3) generates two main alternative-spliced transcripts that generate alpha and beta-Nrxn isoforms differing in their extracellular domains. Mutations in NRXN1 are associated with autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders. However, whether dysfunction of NRXN1 occurs through common or isoform-specific postsynaptic partners for alpha- and beta-Nrxn1 is not completely known. The association of Nrxn1 proteins with postsynaptic partners has been mostly analysed in experiments that test binding, but Nrxn proteins must interact with Nlgns in opposing cells, which requires transcellular oligomerization. Here, we studied the interactions of Nrxn1/Nlgn pairs across the synapse and identified the type of association affected in a mouse model of autism. We found that beta-Nrxn1 can be recruited at synaptic contacts by glutamatergic Nlgn1 and GABAergic Nlgn2, whereas alpha-Nrxn1 is a presynaptic partner of Nlgn2. Insertion of alternative spliced segment 4 (AS4) negatively modulates the presynaptic recruitment of Nrxn1 by Nlgns. These data obtained in transcellular assays help clarify previous knowledge based on the ability of Nrxn1 to bind to Nlgns. Interestingly, we found that a mutant beta-Nrxn1 shows ligand restriction for glutamatergic Nlgn1 in the brain of a mouse model of autism. These findings suggest that autism-associated mutations affecting beta-Nrxn1 can act through specific synaptic partners that may be different from those of its alpha-Nrxn1 counterparts.© 2025. The Author(s).
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by deficits in social communication and limited behavior. Despite the association of numerous synaptic gene mutations with ASD, the presence of behavioral abnormalities in mice expressing autism-associated R617W mutation in synaptic adhesion protein neuroligin-3 (NL3) has not been established. This work focuses on establishing a mouse model of ASD caused by NL3 R617W missense mutation (NL3R617W) and characterizing and profiling the molecular as well as behavioral features of the animal model.The expression and distribution of NL3R617W mutant protein in the 293T cell membrane and intracellular NL3 was detected by using immunofluorescence approach. Meanwhile, synaptic markers (Synapsin I, vesicular glutamate transporter (VGluT) I and vesicular γ-aminobutyric acid transporter (VGAT)) and synapse number were detected with a confocal fluorescence microscope. Thereafter, the effect on NL3R617W was verified. The expression of synaptic proteins, postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD95) and Src homology domain and multiple ankyrin repeat domains protein 3 (SHANK3), was verified by Western blot. The interaction between NL3 and neurexin 1 (NRXN1) was studied by means of co-immunoprecipitation. The behavior of autistic mice induced by NL3R617W mutation was examined using the Morris water maze and the Y maze. NL3R617W mutant mice were assessed in the open field, and three-chamber test was conducted to assess and observe the presence of hyperactivity, repetitive behavior, friendliness, and social novelty.The results indicated that the NL3 mutation could influence the interaction between NL3 and NRXN1, and inhibit the expression of VGluT I. Nevertheless, NL3 mutation would not influence the expression of NL3 on cell membrane, the intracellular distribution of NL3, or the endoplasmic reticulum retention. The outcomes of animal studies demonstrated that the ASD mice with NL3R617W exhibited a significant decrease in the capacity for spatial memory and exploration, as well as the expression levels of the postsynaptic scaffolding proteins, PSD95 and SHANK3 (p < 0.05). The number of excitatory synapses in hippocampal cornu ammonis (CA)1 and CA3 and the sensory cortex was also significantly reduced (p < 0.01). Compared to the control mice, the NL3R617W mutant mice were less active in the open field (p < 0.001), a finding consistent with the three-chamber test result showing reduced degree of activity. Furthermore, compared to the control mice, the NL3R617W mutant animals spent less time with stranger mice (p < 0.05).NL3R617W mutation may inhibit the expression of postsynaptic scaffolding proteins by influencing the interaction with NRXN1, thus inhibiting synapse formation and reducing the number of excitatory synapses.
Astroglia are integral to brain development and the emergence of neurodevelopmental disorders. However, studying the pathophysiology of human astroglia using brain organoid models has been hindered by inefficient astrogliogenesis. In this study, we introduce a robust method for generating astroglia-enriched organoids through BMP4 treatment during the neural differentiation phase of organoid development. Our RNA sequencing analysis reveals that astroglia developed within these organoids exhibit advanced developmental characteristics and enhanced synaptic functions compared to those grown under traditional two-dimensional conditions, particularly highlighted by increased neurexin (NRXN)-neuroligin (NLGN) signaling. Cell adhesion molecules, such as NRXN and NLGN, are essential in regulating interactions between astroglia and neurons. We further discovered that brain organoids derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) harboring the autism-associated NLGN3 R451C mutation exhibit increased astrogliogenesis. Notably, the NLGN3 R451C astroglia demonstrate enhanced branching, indicating a more intricate morphology. Interestingly, our RNA sequencing data suggest that these mutant astroglia significantly upregulate pathways that support neural functions when compared to isogenic wild-type astroglia. Our findings establish a novel astroglia-enriched organoid model, offering a valuable platform for probing the roles of human astroglia in brain development and related disorders.© 2025. The Author(s).
Although neurons release neurotransmitter before contact, the role for this release in synapse formation remains unclear. Cortical synapses do not require synaptic vesicle release for formation (Verhage et al., 2000; Sando et al., 2017; Sigler et al., 2017; Held et al., 2020), yet glutamate clearly regulates glutamate receptor trafficking (Roche et al., 2001; Nong et al., 2004) and induces spine formation (Engert and Bonhoeffer, 1999; Maletic-Savatic et al., 1999; Toni et al., 1999; Kwon and Sabatini, 2011; Oh et al., 2016). Using rat and murine culture systems to dissect molecular mechanisms, we found that glutamate rapidly decreases synapse density specifically in young cortical neurons in a local and calcium-dependent manner through decreasing N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) transport and surface expression as well as cotransport with neuroligin (NL1). Adhesion between NL1 and neurexin 1 protects against this glutamate-induced synapse loss. Major histocompatibility I (MHCI) molecules are required for the effects of glutamate in causing synapse loss through negatively regulating NL1 levels in both sexes. Thus, like acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction, glutamate acts as a dispersal signal for NMDARs and causes rapid synapse loss unless opposed by NL1-mediated trans-synaptic adhesion. Together, glutamate, MHCI, and NL1 mediate a novel form of homeostatic plasticity in young neurons that induces rapid changes in NMDARs to regulate when and where nascent glutamatergic synapses are formed.Copyright © 2024 the authors.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a set of heterogeneous neurodevelopmental conditions, with a highly diverse genetic hereditary component, including altered neuronal circuits, that has an impact on communication skills and behaviours of the affected individuals. Beside the recognised role of neuronal alterations, perturbations of microglia and the associated neuroinflammatory processes have emerged as credible contributors to aetiology and physiopathology of ASD. Mutations in NRXN1, a member of the neurexin family of cell-surface receptors that bind neuroligin, have been associated to ASD. NRXN1 is known to be expressed by neurons where it facilitates synaptic contacts, but it has also been identified in glial cells including microglia. Asserting the impact of ASD-related genes on neuronal versus microglia functions has been challenging. Here, we present an ASD subject-derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC)-based in vitro system to characterise the effects of the ASD-associated NRXN1 gene deletion on neurons and microglia, as well as on the ability of microglia to support neuronal circuit formation and function. Using this approach, we demonstrated that NRXN1 deletion, impacting on the expression of the alpha isoform (NRXN1α), in microglia leads to microglial alterations and release of IL6, a pro-inflammatory interleukin associated with ASD. Moreover, microglia bearing the NRXN1α-deletion, lost the ability to support the formation of functional neuronal networks. The use of recombinant IL6 protein on control microglia-neuron co-cultures or neutralizing antibody to IL6 on their NRXN1α-deficient counterparts, supported a direct contribution of IL6 to the observed neuronal phenotype. Altogether, our data suggest that, in addition to neurons, microglia are also negatively affected by NRXN1α-deletion, and this significantly contributes to the observed neuronal circuit aberrations.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
α-Neurexins are essential and highly expressed presynaptic cell-adhesion molecules that are frequently linked to neuropsychiatric and neurodevelopmental disorders. Despite their importance, how the elaborate extracellular sequences of α-neurexins contribute to synapse function is poorly understood. We recently characterized the presynaptic gain-of-function phenotype caused by a missense mutation in an evolutionarily conserved extracellular sequence of neurexin-3α (A687T) that we identified in a patient diagnosed with profound intellectual disability and epilepsy. The striking A687T gain-of-function mutation on neurexin-3α prompted us to systematically test using mutants whether the presynaptic gain-of-function phenotype is a consequence of the addition of side-chain bulk (i.e., A687V) or polar/hydrophilic properties (i.e., A687S). We used multidisciplinary approaches in mixed-sex primary hippocampal cultures to assess the impact of the neurexin-3αA687 residue on synapse morphology, function and ligand binding. Unexpectedly, neither A687V nor A687S recapitulated the neurexin-3α A687T phenotype. Instead, distinct from A687T, molecular replacement with A687S significantly enhanced postsynaptic properties exclusively at excitatory synapses and selectively increased binding to neuroligin-1 and neuroligin-3 without changing binding to neuroligin-2 or LRRTM2. Importantly, we provide the first experimental evidence supporting the notion that the position A687 of neurexin-3α and the N-terminal sequences of neuroligins may contribute to the stability of α-neurexin-neuroligin-1 trans-synaptic interactions and that these interactions may specifically regulate the postsynaptic strength of excitatory synapses.Copyright © 2024 the authors.
Neuroligin-3 (Nlgn3) is an autism-associated cell-adhesion molecule that interacts with neurexins and is robustly expressed in both neurons and astrocytes. Neuronal Nlgn3 is an essential regulator of synaptic transmission but the function of astrocytic Nlgn3 is largely unknown. Given the high penetrance of Nlgn3 mutations in autism and the emerging role of astrocytes in neuropsychiatric disorders, we here asked whether astrocytic Nlgn3 might shape neural circuit properties in the cerebellum similar to neuronal Nlgn3. Imaging of tagged Nlgn3 protein produced by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing showed that Nlgn3 is enriched in the cell body but not the fine processes of cerebellar astrocytes (Bergmann glia). Astrocyte-specific knockout of Nlgn3 did not detectably alter the number of synapses, synaptic transmission, or astrocyte morphology in mouse cerebellum. However, spatial transcriptomic analyses revealed a significant shift in gene expression among multiple cerebellar cell types after the deletion of astrocytic Nlgn3. Hence, in contrast to neuronal Nlgn3, astrocytic Nlgn3 in the cerebellum is not involved in shaping synapses but may modulate gene expression in specific brain areas.© 2024. The Author(s).
The interaction of neurexins (NRXNs) in the presynaptic membrane with postsynaptic cell adhesion molecules called neuroligins (NLGNs) is critical for this synaptic function. Impaired synaptic functions are emphasized in neurodevelopmental disorders to uncover etiological factors. We evaluated variants in NRXN and NLGN genes encoding molecules located directly at the synapse in patients with neuropsychiatric disorders using clinical exome sequencing and chromosomal microarray. We presented detailed clinical findings of cases carrying heterozygous NRXN1 (c.190C > T, c.1679C > T and two copy number variations [CNVs]), NRXN2 (c.808dup, c.1901G > T), NRXN3 (c.3889C > T), and NLGN1 (c.269C > G, c.473T > A) gene variants. In addition, three novel variants were identified in the NRXN1 (c.1679C > T), NRXN3 [c.3889C > T (p.Pro1297Ser)], and NLGN1 [c.473T > A (p.Ile158Lys)] genes. We emphasize the clinical findings of CNVs of the NRXN1 gene causing a more severe clinical presentation than single nucleotide variants of the NRXN1 gene in this study. We detected an NRXN2 gene variant (c.808dup) with low allelic frequency in two unrelated cases with the same diagnosis. We emphasize the importance of this variant for future studies. We suggest that NRXN2, NRXN3, and NLGN1 genes, which are less frequently reported than NRXN1 gene variants, may also be associated with neurodevelopmental disorders.© 2024 The Authors. Developmental Neurobiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Structural neuroplasticity (changes in the size, strength, number, and targets of synaptic connections) can be modified by sleep and sleep disruption. However, the causal relationships between genetic perturbations, sleep loss, neuroplasticity, and behavior remain unclear. The C. elegans GABAergic DVB neuron undergoes structural plasticity in adult males in response to adolescent stress, which rewires synaptic connections, alters behavior, and is dependent on conserved autism-associated genes NRXN1/nrx-1 and NLGN3/nlg-1. We find that four methods of sleep deprivation transiently induce DVB neurite extension in day 1 adults and increase the time to spicule protraction, which is the functional and behavioral output of the DVB neuron. Loss of nrx-1 and nlg-1 prevent DVB structural plasticity and behavioral changes at day 1 caused by adolescent sleep loss. Therefore, nrx-1 and nlg-1 mediate the morphologic and behavioral consequences of sleep loss, providing insight into the relationship between sleep, neuroplasticity, behavior, and neurologic disease.© 2024 The Authors.
Neuroligin (NLGN) 3 is a postsynaptic cell adhesion protein organizing synapse formation through two different types of transsynaptic interactions, canonical interaction with neurexins (NRXNs) and a recently identified noncanonical interaction with protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) δ. Although, NLGN3 gene is known as a risk gene for neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and intellectual disability (ID), the pathogenic contribution of the canonical NLGN3-NRXN and noncanonical NLGN3-PTPδ pathways to these disorders remains elusive. In this study, we utilized Nlgn3 mutant mice selectively lacking the interaction with either NRXNs or PTPδ and investigated their social and memory performance. Neither Nlgn3 mutants showed any social cognitive deficiency in the social novelty recognition test. However, the Nlgn3 mutant mice lacking the PTPδ pathway exhibited significant decline in the social conditioned place preference (sCPP) at the juvenile stage, suggesting the involvement of the NLGN3-PTPδ pathway in the regulation of social motivation and reward. In terms of learning and memory, disrupting the canonical NRXN pathway attenuated contextual fear conditioning while disrupting the noncanonical NLGN3-PTPδ pathway enhanced it. Furthermore, disruption of the NLGN3-PTPδ pathway negatively affected the remote spatial reference memory in the Barnes maze test. These findings highlight the differential contributions of the canonical NLGN3-NRXN and noncanonical NLGN3-PTPδ synaptogenic pathways to the regulation of higher order brain functions associated with ASD and ID.© 2024. The Author(s).
Neuroligins (NLGNs) are postsynaptic cell adhesion molecules that are involved in synapse assembly and function. The NLGN gene family consists of 5 genes (NLGN1-3, 4X, and 4Y). NLGN3 forms heterodimers with other NLGNs and is expressed at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses, although the distinct role at different synapses is not fully understood. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a proline-directed serine/threonine kinase that targets various neuronal substrates to impact neuronal migration, neurite outgrowth, synaptic transmission, and plasticity. Both NLGNs and their presynaptic binding partners neurexins are highly associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. The NLGN3 gene is on the X chromosome and variants in NLGN3 have been linked to the pathophysiology in neurodevelopmental disorders. To better understand the endogenous modulation of NLGN3, we generated an HA-tagged knock-in mouse. We found that Cdk5 associates with NLGN3 in vivo and phosphorylates NLGN3 on serine 725 (S725) in the knock-in mouse of either sex. The phosphorylation affects the NLGN3 association with Kalirin-7, a postsynaptic guanine nucleotide exchange factors for Rho GTPase family proteins. We further observed that the phosphorylation modulates NLGN3 surface expression and NLGN3-mediated synaptic currents in cultured rat neurons. Thus, we characterized NLGN3 as a novel Cdk5 substrate and revealed the functional consequences of NLGN3 S725 phosphorylation in neurons. Our study provides a novel molecular mechanism underlying Cdk5-mediated regulation of postsynaptic cell adhesion molecules.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT NLGN3 is involved in synapse assembly and function at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses and has been associated with the pathophysiology of neurodevelopmental disorders. Cdk5 has brain-specific activity and is involved in neuronal transmission, synapse function, and plasticity. Here, we characterize NLGN3 as a Cdk5 substrate for the first time and show that Cdk5-mediated phosphorylation regulates NLGN3 function. We demonstrate that NLGN3 S725 is a Cdk5 phosphorylation site, and reveal that the site is important for NLGN3 association with Kalirin-7, NLGN3 surface expression, and NLGN3-mediated synaptic transmission.Copyright © 2023 the authors.
Adolescence is a developmental period that encompasses, but is not limited to, puberty and continues into early adulthood. During this period, maturation and refinement are observed across brain regions such as the prefrontal cortex (PFC), which is critical for cognitive function. Adolescence is also a time when excessive alcohol consumption in the form of binge drinking peaks, increasing the risk of long-term cognitive deficits and the risk of developing an alcohol use disorder later in life. Animal models have revealed that adolescent ethanol (EtOH) exposure results in protracted disruption of neuronal function and performance on PFC-dependent tasks that require higher-order decision-making. However, the role of astrocytes in EtOH-induced disruption of prefrontal cortex-dependent function has yet to be elucidated. Astrocytes have complex morphologies with an extensive network of peripheral astrocyte processes (PAPs) that ensheathe pre- and postsynaptic terminals to form the 'tripartite synapse.' At the tripartite synapse, astrocytes play several critical roles, including synaptic maintenance, dendritic spine maturation, and neurotransmitter clearance through proximity-dependent interactions. Here, we investigate the effects of adolescent binge EtOH exposure on astrocyte morphology, PAP-synaptic proximity, synaptic stabilization proteins, and dendritic spine morphology in subregions of the PFC that are important in the emergence of higher cognitive function. We found that adolescent binge EtOH exposure resulted in subregion specific changes in astrocyte morphology and astrocyte-neuronal interactions. While this did not correspond to a loss of astrocytes, synapses, or dendritic spines, there was a corresponding region-specific and EtOH-dependent shift in dendritic spine phenotype. Lastly, we found that changes in astrocyte-neuronal interactions were not a consequence of changes in the expression of key synaptic structural proteins neurexin, neuroligin 1, or neuroligin 3. These data demonstrate that adolescent EtOH exposure results in enduring effects on neuron-glia interactions that persist into adulthood in a subregion-specific PFC manner, suggesting selective vulnerability. Further work is necessary to understand the functional and behavioral implications.
The subsynaptic organization of postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptors into nanoclusters that are aligned with presynaptic release sites is essential for the high fidelity of synaptic transmission. However, the mechanisms controlling the nanoscale organization of neurotransmitter receptors in vivo remain incompletely understood. Here, we deconstructed the role of neuroligin-3 (Nlgn3), a postsynaptic adhesion molecule linked to autism, in organizing AMPA-type glutamate receptors in the calyx of Held synapse. Deletion of Nlgn3 lowered the amplitude and slowed the kinetics of AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic responses. Super-resolution microscopy revealed that, unexpectedly, these impairments in synaptic transmission were associated with an increase in the size of postsynaptic PSD-95 and AMPA receptor nanoclusters but a decrease of the densities in these clusters. Modeling showed that a dilution of AMPA receptors into larger nanocluster volumes decreases synaptic strength. Nlgn3, likely by binding to presynaptic neurexins, thus is a key organizer of AMPA receptor nanoclusters that likely acts via PSD-95 adaptors to optimize the fidelity of synaptic transmission.
Skipped: PubMed ID 34690695 is a review article
