Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a type of breast cancer with high mortality due to aggressive tumor behavior and limited treatment options. Natural products have been studied for their potential as alternatives to combine with cancer drugs to improve treatment efficacy. Plant phytoconstituents can regulate cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, invasion, angiogenesis, and migration. has been used in traditional medicine; it contains flavonoids, phenols, alkaloids, glycosides, bufadienolides, and tannins, among others. In the present investigation, we evaluated the effects of aqueous extract and the underlying molecular mechanisms in two breast cancer cell lines, HCC1937 and MDA-MB-231, with a focus on cellular migration. The cytotoxic activity results revealed that HCC1937 cells are more sensitive to aqueous extracts than are MDA-MB-231 cells. Compared with that of 48 h-treated MDA-MB-231 cells, cell migration was affected in HCC1937 cells after 24 h of treatment. The extract had greater anti-invasion effects on HCC1937 cells (37.7%, p < 0.01) than on MDA-MB-231 cells (47%, p < 0.05). An RNA-seq assay revealed 1850 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in HCC1937 cells versus 1534 in MDA-MB-231 cells. WebGestalt analysis revealed the downregulation of genes involved in cell-cell adhesion, ruffle organization, and cell-substrate junctions, with more downregulated genes in HCC1937 cells. The downregulated genes analyzed with KOBAS-i were associated with MAPK signaling, focal adhesion, PI3K-Akt signaling, regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, and the ECM-receptor interaction pathway. In addition, IPA network analysis revealed that the RHO GTPase cycle, RHOA signaling, JAK/STAT signaling, actin cytoskeleton signaling and Integrin signaling pathways were inhibited. The data from the docking study indicated the binding potential of quercetin-3-O-arabinoside, kaempferol, quercetin, and apigenin with the JAK2, ROCK1, ROCK2, and PIK3CA proteins. Thus, our results demonstrate that inhibits the proliferation and invasion of TNBC cells by targeting genes involved in these important processes; thus, has the potential to be used in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs for cancer treatment.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Macrophages are critical innate immune cells that exhibit remarkable adaptability during pathogen infections. However, the relationship between their morphological plasticity and physiological functions remains largely elusive. Here, we discovered an unprecedented paradigm of macrophage adaptation within a few hours upon severe Gram-negative bacterial infections, characterized by the formation of dendrite-like pseudopods (DLPs). Using in vitro, microfluidic, and in vivo infection models, we demonstrate that these pseudopods enhance bacterial uptake by expanding the macrophage searching radius, thereby bolstering host defense. Mechanistically, Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activation by Gram-negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) upregulates the expression of macrophage-specific RhoGEF and ARHGEF3 in an NF-κB-dependent manner. ARHGEF3 localizes to dendrite-like pseudopods and enhances RhoA activity. Consequently, periodic cycles of actin assembly and disassembly propel the elongation of pseudopods, whereas vimentin intermediate filaments stabilize them. Importantly, infusion of DLP-equipped macrophages into Salmonella-infected mice reduced bacterial burden and infection severity. Together, our findings underscore how the dynamic response of macrophages to massive infections can augment immune defense against pathogenic bacteria.© 2025. The Author(s).
Membrane blebbing is a hallmark of apoptotic cell death. However, the molecular mechanism that regulates this event has not been fully elucidated. To understand this underlying mechanism, we developed visualization systems suitable for spatiotemporal analysis. By monitoring the plasma membrane labeled with a fluorescent protein and reconstructing the image data as three-dimensional (3D) volumes based on the rendering technique, we observed that dying cells exhibit cycles of bleb formation at the same region of the cell surface. In addition, a Förster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET)-based biosensor incorporating a regulatory myosin light chain (RMLC) displayed phosphorylation at the base of the retracting bleb, and dephosphorylation before re-expansion, implying the involvement of not only a kinase but also a phosphatase in the regulation of RMLC. To extend these observations, we focused on a scaffold protein, myosin phosphatase Rho interacting protein (MPRIP), which interacts with RhoA and myosin phosphatase targeting subunit 1 (MYPT1), involved in activation of Rho-associated coiled-coil kinase-I (ROCK-I) or protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), respectively. We found that MPRIP is cleaved both in dying cells and in an in vitro cleavage assay in a caspase-dependent manner. A cleaved C-terminal peptide fragment maintains the interaction with MYPT1. Cytological analysis showed that this fragment forms a complex with MYPT1 and myosin after translocating to the cytoplasm. These results suggest that this complex formation promotes the dephosphorylation of RMLC. Collectively, our study indicates that repetitive bleb formation, which is unique to apoptosis, is regulated by both phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of RMLC through MPRIP in a coordinated manner.© 2025 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The large absorptive surface area of the small intestine is imparted by finger-like projections called villi. Villi formation is instructed by stromal-derived clusters of cells which have been proposed to induce epithelial bending through actomyosin contraction. Their functions in the elongation of villi have not been studied. Here, we explored the function of mesenchymal contractility at later stages of villus morphogenesis. We induced contractility specifically in the mesenchyme of the developing intestine through inducible overexpression of the RhoA GTPase activator Arhgef11. This resulted in overgrowth of the clusters through a YAP-mediated increase in cell proliferation. While epithelial bending occurred in the presence of contractile clusters, the resulting villi had architectural defects, being shorter and wider than controls. These villi also had defects in epithelial organization and the establishment of nutrient-absorbing enterocytes. While ectopic activation of YAP resulted in similar cluster overgrowth and wider villi, it did not affect villus elongation or enterocyte differentiation, demonstrating roles for contractility in addition to proliferation. We find that the specific contractility-induced effects were dependent upon cluster interaction with the extracellular matrix. Together, these data demonstrate effects of contractility on villus morphogenesis and distinguish separable roles for proliferation and contractility in controlling intestinal architecture.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
RhoA GTPases play critical roles in actin cytoskeletal remodeling required for controlling a diverse range of cellular functions including cell proliferation, adhesion, migration and changes in cell shape, all required for cutaneous wound healing. RhoA cycles between an active GTP-bound and an inactive GDP-bound form, a process regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) and GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). ARHGAP29 is a GAP expressed in skin keratinocytes and is decreased in the absence of interferon regulator factor 6, a critical regulator of cell proliferation, migration, and wound healing. However, the role for ARHGAP29 in keratinocyte biology is unknown.We generated ARHGAP29 knockdown keratinocyte cell lines and show they displayed increased filamentous actin, phospho-myosin regulatory light chain, cell area and population doubling time. Furthermore, we found that ARHGAP29 knockdown keratinocytes displayed significant delays in scratch wound closure in both single and collective cell migration conditions; these delays were rescued by both adding back ARHGAP29 or adding a ROCK inhibitor to ARHGAP29 knockdown cells. In vivo, however, Arhgap29 heterozygotes or keratinocyte-specific knockouts showed on-time wound healing.These data demonstrate that ARHGAP29 is required for keratinocyte morphology, proliferation and migration in vitro but is dispensable during wound healing in vivo.© 2024 The Author(s). Developmental Dynamics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Association for Anatomy.
Asthma is a common chronic respiratory disease characterized by chronic airway inflammation and abnormal airway remodeling. The RhoA/ROCK pathway and myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTF-A) demonstrate significant associations with the proliferation of airway smooth muscle cells (ASCMs), which tightly correlates with the process of airway remodeling. MYOCD, which is homologous to MRTF-A but specifically expressed in smooth muscle cells, potentially regulates RhoA/ROCK activated cell proliferation and subsequent airway remodeling.The RhoA/ROCK overexpression and silencing cell lines were constructed in vitro, as well as MYOCD overexpression/silencing. The cytoskeleton alterations induced by RhoA/ROCK pathway were identified by the measuring of globular actin and filamentous actin.The comparison between controls for overexpression/silencing and ROCK overexpression/silencing revealed that MYOCD presented consistent change trends with cytoskeleton and RhoA/ROCK pathway. The ROCK1 facilitates the proliferation and migration of ASCMs. The MYOCD enhanced the proliferation and migration of HASMCs.Our study indicates that Rho/ROCK/MYOCD is a key pathway involved in the migration and proliferation of airway smooth muscle cells. Inhibition of Rho/ROCK may be an effective approach to breaking the vicious cycle of asthmatic ASCMs proliferation, providing a novel strategy in treating asthma airway remodeling.© 2024 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Long noncoding RNAs are key players in the development of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). The present study elucidated the role of LINC01087 in LUAD development. Cell vitality and apoptosis were assessed by the CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry, respectively. The transwell assay was adopted to evaluate cell migration and invasion. Levels of m6A modification of LINC01087 were determined using the methylated RNA binding protein immunoprecipitation assay. The interactions among LINC01087, miR-514a-3p, and centrosome protein 55 (CEP55) were evaluated using dual-luciferase reporter, RNA immunoprecipitation, and RNA-RNA pull-down assays. LINC01087 was highly expressed in LUAD, and its downregulation restrained cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in vitro as well as tumor growth in a xenograft tumor model. Overexpression of miR-514a-3p inhibited malignant phenotypes in LUAD cells by inactivating RhoA/ROCK1 signaling via the suppression of CEP55 expression. Mechanistically, RBM15 increased the expression and mRNA stability of LINC01087 by mediating its m6A modification and LINC01087 induced CEP55 expression by sponging miR-514a-3p. RBM15-induced LINC01087 upregulation accelerated LUAD progression by regulating the miR-514a-3p/CEP55/RhoA/ROCK1 axis, illustrating the potential of LINC01087 as a novel target for LUAD therapy.© 2024 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
RhoA GTPase plays critical roles in actin cytoskeletal remodeling required for controlling a diverse range of cellular functions including cell proliferation, cell adhesions, migration and changes in cell shape. RhoA cycles between an active GTP-bound and an inactive GDP-bound form, a process that is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs), and GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). ARHGAP29 is a GAP expressed in keratinocytes of the skin and is decreased in the absence of Interferon Regulator Factor 6, a critical regulator of cell proliferation and migration. However, the role for ARHGAP29 in keratinocyte biology is unknown.Novel ARHGAP29 knockdown keratinocyte cell lines were generated using both CRISPR/Cas9 and shRNA technologies. Knockdown cells exhibited significant reduction of ARHGAP29 protein (50-80%) and displayed increased filamentous actin (stress fibers), phospho-myosin light chain (contractility), cell area and population doubling time. Furthermore, we found that ARHGAP29 knockdown keratinocytes displayed significant delays in scratch wound closure in both single cell and collective cell migration conditions. Particularly, our results show a reduction in path lengths, speed, directionality and persistence in keratinocytes with reduced ARHGAP29. The delay in scratch closure was rescued by both adding back ARHGAP29 or adding a ROCK inhibitor to ARHGAP29 knockdown cells.These data demonstrate that ARHGAP29 is required for keratinocyte morphology, proliferation and migration mediated through the RhoA pathway.
Rho family mechano-signaling through the actin cytoskeleton positively regulates physiological TEAD/YAP transcription, while the evolutionarily conserved Hippo tumor suppressor pathway antagonizes this transcription through YAP cytoplasmic localization/degradation. The mechanisms responsible for oncogenic dysregulation of these pathways, their prevalence in tumors, as well as how such dysregulation can be therapeutically targeted are not resolved. We demonstrate that p53 DNA contact mutants in human tumors, indirectly hyperactivate RhoA/ROCK1/actomyosin signaling, which is both necessary and sufficient to drive oncogenic TEAD/YAP transcription. Moreover, we demonstrate that recurrent lesions in the Hippo pathway depend on physiological levels of ROCK1/actomyosin signaling for oncogenic TEAD/YAP transcription. Finally, we show that ROCK inhibitors selectively antagonize proliferation and motility of human tumors with either mechanism. Thus, we identify a cancer driver paradigm and a precision medicine approach for selective targeting of human malignancies driven by TEAD/YAP transcription through mechanisms that either upregulate or depend on homeostatic RhoA mechano-signaling.© 2022. The Author(s).
ARHGAP21 is a member of the RhoGAP family of proteins involved in cell growth, differentiation, and adhesion. We have previously shown that the heterozygous Arhgap21 knockout mouse model (Arhgap21+/-) presents several alterations in the hematopoietic compartment, including increased frequency of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPC) with impaired adhesion in vitro, increased mobilization to peripheral blood, and decreased engraftment after bone marrow transplantation. Although these HSPC functions strongly depend on their interactions with the components of the bone marrow (BM) niche, the role of ARHGAP21 in the marrow microenvironment has not yet been explored. In this study, we investigated the composition and function of the BM microenvironment in Arhgap21+/- mice. The BM of Arhgap21+/- mice presented a significant increase in the frequency of phenotypic osteoblastic lineage cells, with no differences in the frequencies of multipotent stromal cells or endothelial cells when compared to the BM of wild type mice. Arhgap21+/- BM cells had increased capacity of generating osteogenic colony-forming units (CFU-OB) in vitro and higher levels of osteocalcin were detected in the Arhgap21+/- BM supernatant. Increased expression of Col1a1, Ocn and decreased expression of Trap1 were observed after osteogenic differentiation of Arhgap21+/- BM cells. In addition, Arhgap21+/- mice recipients of normal BM cells showed decreased leucocyte numbers during transplantation recovery. Our data suggest participation of ARHGAP21 in the balanced composition of the BM microenvironment through the regulation of osteogenic differentiation.Copyright © 2021 Pissarra, Torello, Gomes, Shiraishi, Santos, Vieira Ferro, Lopes, Bergamo Favaro, Olalla Saad and Lazarini.
