Ferroptosis has been reported to be associated with the development of ischemic stroke; however, comprehensive investigations of ferroptosis-associated genes are lacking. Herein, key differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to ferroptosis in ischemic stroke were identified and validated and the potential mechanism of acupuncture in treating ischemic stroke was explored through bioinformatics analysis and experiments.High-throughput RNA sequencing was performed to identify DEGs between cerebral ischemic injury tissue and normal brain tissue in mice. Subsequently, differentially expressed ferroptosis-related genes (DE-FRGs) were identified by intersecting the DEGs with a ferroptosis database. Functional enrichment analysis was conducted to investigate potential signaling pathways involved in ischemic stroke, while protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis was used to explore interactions among the DE-FRGs. Hub genes were identified using the random forest algorithm, and their RNA expression levels were validated via RT-qPCR in sham-operated, MCAO model, and acupuncture groups.The results showed that one hundred twenty-seven DE-FRGs were identified by comparing cerebral ischemic injury tissue with normal brain tissue in mice. KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that these DE-FRGs were primarily involved in the ferroptosis pathway, autophagy-animal pathway, apoptosis pathway, HIF-1 signaling pathway, and longevity-regulating pathway. The top 10 hub DE-FRGs selected through the PPI analysis and random forest algorithm included SLC3A2, FTH1, MAP1LC3A, SLC40A1, TFRC, TMSB4X NRAS CD82 CD44, and PTPN18. Nine genes were confirmed to be significantly differentially expressed between the sham and MCAO mouse models. Moreover, FTH1, SLC40A1, NRAS, CD82, and PTPN18 levels significantly increased after acupuncture in ischemic stroke mice.The ferroptosis pathway, autophagy-animal pathway, apoptosis pathway, HIF-1 signaling pathway, and longevity-regulating pathway were identified as crucial pathways associated with ferroptosis in cerebral ischemic stroke. Bioinformatics analysis and RT-qPCR suggested that FTH1, SLC40A1, NRAS, CD82, and PTPN18 might serve as potential key targets underlying the antiferroptotic effects of acupuncture on ischemic stroke.Copyright Â© 2025 Wu, Xu, Wang, Zhu and Tang.
Cisplatin is an important chemotherapeutic agent is widely used to treat breast cancer and olaparib is the most studied PARP inhibitor to date. To explore the combinational anti-cancer potential and synergistic mechanism of Olaparib and cisplatin in breast cancer using network pharmacology. Drugs targets were drawn from PharmMapper, DrugBank, BATMAN-TCM, DrugCentral, STITCH, Swiss Institude of Bioinformatics and Comparative Toxigenomics Database (CTD). Breast cancer targets were extracted from OMIM, KEGG, GeneCards and DrugBank. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was created using the STRING database. Core targets were selected by incorporating PPI networks using Cytoscape 3.9.1. GO and KEGG analyses were performed to investigate common targets of Olaparib and cisplatin in breast cancer. The drug-disease-target network contained 82 nodes and 901 edges. The common targets obtained from Olaparib, cisplatin and breast cancer were identified, including ATK, p53, caspase-3, HSP90AA1, IL-6, IL-1Î², ANXA5, SIRT1, caspase-9 and PARP. Core targets were primarily related to response to reactive oxygen species, regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway, regulation of DNA metabolic process, and regulation of cell activation. The KEGG pathway analysis revealed that Olaparib and cisplatin may affect breast cancer through platinum drug resistance and longevity regulating pathway. Furthermore, Olaparib combined with cisplatin downregulated the expression of caspase-3 and caspase-9 proteins and upregulated p53, PARP, and SIRT1 protein levels in MCF-7 cells. Functionally, the cooperative effect of Olaparib and cisplatin reduced the applied concentration of cisplatin and enhanced the anticancer effect, emphasizing the importance of combination therapy to overcome side effects and significantly improve the anticancer efficacy of cisplatin.Â© 2025. The Author(s).
Dendrolimus kikuchii Matsumura (D. kikuchii) is a serious pest of coniferous trees. Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) has been widely studied and applied as a biological control agent for a variety of pests. Here, we found that the mortality rate of D. kikuchii larvae after being fed Bt reached 95.33% at 24 h; the midgut membrane tissue was ulcerated and liquefied, the MDA content in the midgut tissue decreased and the SOD, CAT and GPx enzyme activities increased, indicating that Bt has toxic effects on D. kikuchii larvae. In addition, transmission electron microscopy showed that Bt infection caused severe deformation of the nucleus of the midgut tissue of D. kikuchii larvae, vacuoles in the nucleolus, swelling and shedding of microvilli, severe degradation of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum and decreased number. Surprisingly, metabolomics and transcriptome association analysis revealed that four metabolic-related signaling pathways, Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, Longevity regulating pathway-worm, Vitamin digestion and absorption and Lysine degradation, were co-annotated in larvae. More surprisingly, Niacinamide was a common differential metabolite in the first three signaling pathways, and both Niacinamide and L-2-Aminoadipic acid were reduced. The differentially expressed genes involved in the four signaling pathways, including NNT, ALDH, PNLIP, SETMAR, GST and RNASEK, were significantly down-regulated, but only SLC23A1 gene expression was up-regulated. Our results illustrate the effects of Bt on the 5th instar larvae of D. kikuchii at the tissue, cell and molecular levels, and provide theoretical support for the study of Bt as a new biological control agent for D. kikuchii.
The Chinese soft-shelled turtle (Pelodiscus sinensis) is an important freshwater aquaculture turtle due to its taste and nutritional and medicinal value. More ecological culturing modes, such as rice-turtle co-culture, should be developed to meet the ecological benefit demand. We compared growth, physiological parameters, and transcriptome data to detect the physiological responses and regulatory mechanisms of pond-cultured turtles as compared to co-cultured turtles. The co-cultured turtles grew slower than pond-cultured turtles. The gonadosomatic index of co-cultured male turtles was lower than that of pond-cultured male turtles, and both the mesenteric fat index and limb fat index were lower in co-cultured turtles than in pond-cultured turtles (p < 0.05). The blood GLU of the co-cultured turtles was significantly lower than the GLU of the pond-cultured turtles (p < 0.05), while the values of CRE, UA, BUN, AKP, ACP, GOT, and CAT were higher in the co-cultured turtles than in the pond-cultured turtles (p < 0.05). In total, 246 and 598 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the brain and gut from turtles cultured in the two different modes, respectively. More DEGs were related to environmental information processing, metabolism, and human diseases. In the brain, the top enriched pathways of DEGs included the longevity regulating pathway, glycerolipid metabolism, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, while in the gut, the top enriched pathways of DEGs included the cell cycle, DNA replication, cellular senescence, and p53 signaling pathway. The turtles acclimated to the different culturing conditions by adjusting their growth, physiological, and biochemical characteristics and related gene expression during a short culture period.
Cerebral ischemia is one of the major causes of death and disability worldwide. Currently, existing approved therapies are based on reperfusion and there is an unmet need to search for drugs with neuroprotective effects. The present study aims to investigate the neuroprotective mechanisms of nitroxoline, a nitro derivative of 8-Hydroxyquinoline, against cerebral ischemia using integrated network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches. Critical analytical tools used were SwissTarget, PharmMapper, BindingDB, DisGeNet, Cytoscape, GeneMANIA, ShinyGo, Metascape, GeneCodis, and Schrodinger GLIDE. Thirty-six overlapping drug and disease targets were identified and used for further analysis. Gene Ontology results showed that nitroxoline enriched the genes involved in biological processes of oxidative stress and apoptotic cell death that are highly implicated in hypoxic injury. KEGG enrichment analysis showed nitroxoline influenced a total of 159 biological pathways, out of which, top pathways involved in cerebral ischemia included longevity regulating pathway, VEGF signaling, EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance, IL-17 and HIF-1 pathways, FoxO signaling, and AGE-RAGE pathway. Protein-protein interaction analysis using string database showed PARP1, EGFR, PTEN, BRD4, RAC1, NOS2, MTOR, MAPK3, BCL2, MAPK1, APP, METAP2, MAPK14, SIRT1, PRKAA1, and MCL1 as highly interactive proteins involved in pathogenesis of ischemic stroke regulated by nitroxoline. The highly interactive protein targets were validated by molecular docking studies and molecular dynamic simulations. Amongst all these targets, nitroxoline showed the highest binding affinity towards BRD4 followed by PARP1 and PTEN.Â Nitroxoline, through network pharmacology analysis, showed a role in regulating proteins, biological processes, and pathways crucial in cerebral ischemia. The current study thus provides a preliminary insight that nitroxoline might be used as a neuroprotectant against cerebral ischemia via modulating the epigenetic reader BRD4 and transcription factors such as RELA, NF-ÎºÎ²1, and SP1. However, further in-vitro and preclinical studies need to be performed for concrete evidence.Â© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Diabetic encephalopathy (DE) is one of the complications of diabetes mellitus with mild-to-moderate cognitive impairment. Trichostatin A (TSA) has been revealed to show protective effect on central nervous systems in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. However, the effect and molecular mechanism of TSA on cognitive function of DE are unknown. Here, we demonstrated that cognitive function was damaged in diabetic mice versus normal mice and treatment with TSA improved cognitive function in diabetic mice. Proteomic analysis of the hippocampus revealed 174 differentially expressed proteins in diabetic mice compared with normal mice. TSA treatment reversed the expression levels of 111 differentially expressed proteins grouped into functional clusters, including the longevity regulating pathway, the insulin signaling pathway, peroxisomes, protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum, and ribosomes. Furthermore, protein-protein interaction network analysis of TSA-reversed proteins revealed that UBA52, CAT, RPL29, RPL35A, CANX, RPL37, and PRKAA2 were the main hub proteins. Multiple KEGG pathway-enriched CAT and PRKAA2 levels were significantly decreased in the hippocampus of diabetic mice versus normal mice, which was reversed by TSA administration. Finally, screening for potential similar or ancillary drugs for TSA treatment indicated that HDAC inhibitors ISOX, apicidin, and panobinostat were the most promising similar drugs, and the PI3K inhibitor GSK-1059615, the Aurora kinase inhibitor alisertib, and the nucleophosmin inhibitor avrainvillamide-analog-6 were the most promising ancillary drugs. In conclusion, our study revealed that CAT and PRKAA2 were the key proteins involved in the improvement of DE after TSA treatment. ISOX, apicidin, and panobinostat were promising similar drugs and that GSK-1059615, alisertib, and avrainvillamide-analog-6 were promising ancillary drugs to TSA in the treatment of DE.Â© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
To study the relationship between clock genes and Major Depressive Disorder (MDD).GEO database was used to obtain the chip data and clinical information of datasets GSE98793, GSE39653 and GSE52790. The differentially expressed clock genes were found through the analysis of the differentially expressed genes between MDD and healthy controls. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes Pathway (KEGG) enrichment analysis were performed on the differential expressed clock genes. Lasso Regression and Support Vector Machine (SVM) method were used for screening the differential expressed clock genes. Logistic regression was used to establish a diagnostic model for depression with the screened genes. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) Curve was used to verify the model. Gene differential expression analysis was performed for MDD with high scores and MDD with low scores in the diagnostic model. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) enrichment analysis was performed for differentially expressed genes. Single-gene GSEA was used to analyze each gene in the model separately. Cibersort method was used to analyze the immune infiltration of MDD and healthy controls, and the correlation between immune cells and clock genes was analyzed. Cytoscape was used to analyze the clock gene interaction network. The DGIdb website was used to predict potentially effective therapeutic drugs for clock genes closely related to MDD.Six genes were identified by differential expression analysis of clock genes between MDD and healthy controls. GO and KEGG enrichment analysis of 6 genes showed that their pathways were concentrated such as circadian rhythm, rhythmic process, TGFÂ -Â beta signaling pathway, longevity regulating pathway-multiple species, adipocytokine signaling pathway and so on. Lasso regression and SVM were used to screen out 5 clock genes (HDAC1, ID3, NFIL3, PRKAA1, TNF) for MDD. The diagnostic model of depression was established according to the 5 clock genes. The area under the curve (AUC) of the established depression diagnostic model was 0.686. Gene difference analysis was performed between MDD patients with high score of clock gene diagnostic model and MDD patients with low score. GSEA was performed for the differential genes showed that the most enriched pathways were:adipocytokine signaling pathway, TGF beta signaling pathway, oxidative phosphorylation, primary immunodeficiency, and so on. The single gene GSEA showed that the most enriched pathways were Toll like receptor signaling pathway, glucolipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, neuroactive ligand receptor interaction, and so on. The results of immune infiltration analysis showed that NK cells resting and Macrophages M2 were different between MDD and control groups. In MDD, the gene closely related to NK cells resting was HDAC1, and the genes closely related to Macrophages M2 were HDAC1 and NFIL3. The RNA interactions network of clock genes shows that the regulation process is complex, which can provide a reference for subsequent related research. Potential therapeutic drugs predict display, among the 5 clock genes, TNF, HDAC1, and PRKAA1 may have potential effective therapeutic drugs.Among all CLOCK genes, HDAC1, ID3, NFIL3, PRKAA1, TNF are closely related to MDD. Among them, TNF, HDAC1, and PRKAA1 may have potential effective therapeutic drugs.Copyright Â© 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The physicochemical properties and multiple bioactive effects of ginseng oligopeptides (GOPs), plant-derived small molecule bioactive peptides, suggest a positive influence on health span and longevity. Given this, cellular senescence is the initiating factor and key mechanism of aging in the organism, and thus the current study sought to explore the effects of GOPs on H2O2-induced cellular senescence and its potential mechanisms. Senescence was induced in mouse embryonic fibroblasts NIH/3T3 by 4 h of exposure to 200 ÂµM H2O2 and confirmed using CCK-8 assay and Western blot analyses of p16INK4A and p21Waf1/Cip1 after 24 h of growth medium administration with or without GOPs supplementation (25, 50, and 100 Âµg/mL). We found that GOPs delayed oxidative stress-induced NIH/3T3 senescence by inhibiting the G1 phase arrest, increasing DNA synthesis in the S phase, decreasing the relative protein expression of p16INK4A and p21Waf1/Cip1, promoting cell viability, protecting DNA, and enhancing telomerase (TE) activity. Further investigation revealed that the increase in antioxidative capacity and anti-inflammation capacity might form the basis for the retarding of the senescence effects of GOPs. Furthermore, GOPs supplementation significantly improved mitochondrial function and mitochondrial biogenesis via the NAD+/SIRT1/PGC-1ð›¼ pathway. These findings indicate that GOPs may have a positive effect on health span and lifespan extension via combating cellular senescence, oxidative stress, and inflammation, as well as modulating longevity regulating pathway NAD+/SIRT1/PGC-1ð›¼.
Sevoflurane is one of the most popular inhalational anesthetics during perioperative period but presenting neurotoxicity among pediatric and aged populations. Recent experiments in vivo and in vitro have indicated that ferroptosis may contribute to the neurotoxicity of sevoflurane anesthesia. However, the exact mechanism is still unclear.In current study, we explored the differential expressed genes (DEGs) in HT-22 mouse hippocampal neuronal cells after sevoflurane anesthesia using RNA-seq. Differential expressed ferroptosis-related genes (DEFRGs) were screened and analyzed by Gene Ontology (GO) and pathway enrichment analysis. Protein-to-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed by the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes (STRING). Significant modules and the hub genes were identified by using Cytoscape. The Connectivity Map (cMAP) was used for screening drug candidates targeting the identified DEFRGs. Potential TF-gene network and drug-gene pairs were established towards the hub genes. In final, we validated these results in experiments.A total of 37 ferroptosis-related genes (18 upregulated and 19 downregulated) after sevoflurane exposure in hippocampal neuronal cells were finally identified. These differentially expressed genes were mainly involved into the biological processes of cellular response to oxidative stress. Pathway analysis indicated that these genes were involved in ferroptosis, mTOR signaling pathway, and longevity-regulating pathway. PPI network was constructed. 10 hub genes including Prkaa2, Chac1, Arntl, Tfrc, Slc7a11, Atf4, Mgst1, Lpin1, Atf3, and Sesn2 were found. Top 10 drug candidates, gene-drug networks, and TFs targeting these genes were finally identified. These results were validated in experiments.Our results suggested that ferroptosis-related genes play roles in sevoflurane anesthesia-related hippocampal neuron injury and offered the hub genes and potential therapeutic agents for investigating and treatment of this neurotoxicity after sevoflurane exposure. Finally, therapeutic effect of these drug candidates and function of potential ferroptosis targets should be further investigated for treatment and clarifying mechanisms of sevoflurane anesthesia-induced neuron injury in future research.Copyright Â© 2022 Mengrong Miao et al.
Administration of Magnoliae Cortex (MC) could induce remission of cisplatin-induced sarcopenia in mice, however, whether it is effective on sarcopenia patients and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.Sarcopenia related differentially expressed genes were analysed based on three Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) transcriptome profiling datasets, which was merged and de duplicated with disease databases to obtain sarcopenia related pathogenic genes. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis were than performed to analyse the role of proteins encoded by sarcopenia related pathogenic genes and the signal regulatory pathways involved in. The main active components and target proteins of MC were obtained by searching traditional Chinese medicine network databases (TCMSP and BATMAN-TCM). MC and sarcopenia related pathogenic genes shared target proteins were identified by matching the two. A protein-protein interaction network was constructed subsequently, and the core proteins were filtered according to the topological structure. GO and KEGG analysis were performed again to analyse the key target proteins and pathways of MC in the treatment of sarcopenia, and build the herbs-components-targets network, as well as core targets-signal pathways network. Molecular docking technology was used to verify the main compounds-targets.Sarcopenia related gene products primarily involve in aging and inflammation related signal pathways. Seven main active components (Anonaine, Eucalyptol, Neohesperidin, Obovatol, Honokiol, Magnolol, and beta-Eudesmol) and 26 target proteins of MC-sarcopenia, of which 4 were core proteins (AKT1, EGFR, INS, and PIK3CA), were identified. The therapeutic effect of MC on sarcopenia may associate with PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance, longevity regulating pathway, and other cellular and innate immune signaling pathways.MC contains potential anti-sarcopenia active compounds. These compounds play a role by regulating the proteins implicated in regulating aging and inflammation related signaling pathways, which are crucial in pathogenesis of sarcopenia. Our study provides new insights into the development of a natural therapy for the prevention and treatment of sarcopenia.Â© 2022. The Author(s).
Insulin/insulin growth factor signaling is a conserved pathway that regulates lifespan across many species. Multiple mechanisms are proposed for how this altered signaling slows aging. To elaborate these causes, we recently developed a series of Drosophila insulin-like receptor (dInr) mutants with single amino acid substitutions that extend lifespan but differentially affect insulin sensitivity, growth and reproduction. Transheterozygotes of canonical dInr mutants (Type I) extend longevity and are insulin-resistant, small and weakly fecund. In contrast, a dominant mutation (dInr353, Type II) within the Kinase Insert Domain (KID) robustly extends longevity but is insulin-sensitive, full-sized, and highly fecund. We applied transcriptome and metabolome analyses to explore how dInr353 slows aging without insulin resistance. Type I and II mutants overlap in many pathways but also produce distinct transcriptomic profiles that include differences in innate immune and reproductive functions. In metabolomic analyses, the KID mutant dInr353 reprograms methionine metabolism in a way that phenocopies dietary methionine restriction, in contrast to canonical mutants which are characterized by upregulation of the transsulfuration pathway. Because abrogation of S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase blocks the longevity benefit conferred by dInr353, we conclude the methionine cycle reprogramming of Type II is sufficient to slow aging. Metabolomic analysis further revealed the Type II mutant is metabolically flexible: unlike aged wildtype, aged dInr353 adults can reroute methionine toward the transsulfuration pathway, while Type I mutant flies upregulate the transsulfuration pathway continuously from young age. Altered insulin/insulin growth factor signaling has the potential to slow aging without the complications of insulin resistance by modulating methionine cycle dynamics.Copyright: Â© 2025 Tatar et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 36270337 is a review article
Preferably, lifespan-extending therapies should work when applied late in life without causing undesired pathologies. Reducing insulin/insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 signaling (IIS) increases lifespan across species, but the effects of reduced IIS interventions in extreme geriatric ages remains unknown. Using the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, we engineered the conditional depletion of the DAF-2/insulin/IGF-1 transmembrane receptor using an auxin-inducible degradation (AID) system. This allowed for the temporal and spatial reduction in DAF-2 protein levels at time points after which interventions such as RNAi become ineffective. Using this system, we found that AID-mediated depletion of DAF-2 protein surpasses the longevity of daf-2 mutants. Depletion of DAF-2 during early adulthood resulted in multiple adverse phenotypes, including growth retardation, germline shrinkage, egg retention, and reduced brood size. By contrast, AID-mediated depletion of DAF-2 post-reproduction, or specifically in the intestine in early adulthood, resulted in an extension of lifespan without these deleterious effects. Strikingly, at geriatric ages, when 75% of the population had died, AID-mediated depletion of DAF-2 protein resulted in a doubling in lifespan. Thus, we provide a proof-of-concept that even close to the end of an individual's lifespan, it is possible to slow aging and promote longevity.Â© 2021, Venz et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 22618766 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 20395504 is a review article
p53 plays a critical role in tumor suppression. As a transcription factor, in response to stress signals, p53 regulates its target genes and initiates stress responses, including cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, and/or senescence, to exert its function in tumor suppression. Emerging evidence has suggested that p53 is also an important but complex player in the regulation of aging and longevity in worms, flies, mice, and humans. Whereas p53 accelerates the aging process and shortens life span in some contexts, p53 can also extend life span in some other contexts. Thus, p53 appears to regulate aging and longevity in a context-dependent manner. Here, the authors review some recent advances in the study of the role of p53 in the regulation of aging and longevity in both invertebrate and vertebrate models. Furthermore, they discuss the potential mechanisms by which p53 regulates aging and longevity, including the p53 regulation of insulin/TOR signaling, stem/progenitor cells, and reactive oxygen species.
Skipped: PubMed ID 20336132 is a review article
Immune system defects are at the center of aging and a range of diseases. Here, we show that prolonged fasting reduces circulating IGF-1 levels and PKA activity in various cell populations, leading to signal transduction changes in long-term hematopoietic stem cells (LT-HSCs) and niche cells that promote stress resistance, self-renewal, and lineage-balanced regeneration. Multiple cycles of fasting abated the immunosuppression and mortality caused by chemotherapy and reversed age-dependent myeloid-bias in mice, in agreement with preliminary data on the protection of lymphocytes from chemotoxicity in fasting patients. The proregenerative effects of fasting on stem cells were recapitulated by deficiencies in either IGF-1 or PKA and blunted by exogenous IGF-1. These findings link the reduced levels of IGF-1 caused by fasting to PKA signaling and establish their crucial role in regulating hematopoietic stem cell protection, self-renewal, and regeneration.Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 25832544 is a review article
Autophagy has been implicated in the ageing process, but whether autophagy activation extends lifespan in mammals is unknown. Here we show that ubiquitous overexpression of Atg5, a protein essential for autophagosome formation, extends median lifespan of mice by 17.2%. We demonstrate that moderate overexpression of Atg5 in mice enhances autophagy, and that Atg5 transgenic mice showed anti-ageing phenotypes, including leanness, increased insulin sensitivity and improved motor function. Furthermore, mouse embryonic fibroblasts cultured from Atg5 transgenic mice are more tolerant to oxidative damage and cell death induced by oxidative stress, and this tolerance was reversible by treatment with an autophagy inhibitor. Our observations suggest that the leanness and lifespan extension in Atg5 transgenic mice may be the result of increased autophagic activity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 25654554 is a review article
mTOR signalling is implicated in the development of disease and in lifespan extension in model organisms. This pathway has been associated with human diseases such as diabetes and cancer, but has not been investigated for its impact on longevity per se. Here, we investigated whether transcriptional variation within the mTOR pathway is associated with human longevity using whole-blood samples from the Leiden Longevity Study. This is a unique cohort of Dutch families with extended survival across generations, decreased morbidity and beneficial metabolic profiles in middle-age. By comparing mRNA levels of nonagenarians and middle-aged controls, the mTOR signalling gene set was found to associate with old age (P = 4.6 Ã— 10(-7)). Single gene analysis showed that seven of 40 mTOR pathway genes had a significant differential expression of at least 5%. Of these, the RPTOR (Raptor) gene was found to be differentially expressed also when the offspring of nonagenarians was compared with their spouses, indicating association with familial longevity in middle-age. This association was not explained by variation between the groups in the prevalence of type 2 diabetes and cancer or glucose levels. Thus, the mTOR pathway not only plays a role in the regulation of disease and aging in animal models, but also in human health and longevity.Â© 2012 The Authors Aging Cell Â© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Skipped: PubMed ID 23594965 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 17701476 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 20103737 is a review article
Adiponectin is an anti-diabetic adipokine. Its receptors possess a seven-transmembrane topology with the amino terminus located intracellularly, which is the opposite of G-protein-coupled receptors. Here we provide evidence that adiponectin induces extracellular Ca(2+) influx by adiponectin receptor 1 (AdipoR1), which was necessary for subsequent activation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase beta (CaMKKbeta), AMPK and SIRT1, increased expression and decreased acetylation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha), and increased mitochondria in myocytes. Moreover, muscle-specific disruption of AdipoR1 suppressed the adiponectin-mediated increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, and decreased the activation of CaMKK, AMPK and SIRT1 by adiponectin. Suppression of AdipoR1 also resulted in decreased PGC-1alpha expression and deacetylation, decreased mitochondrial content and enzymes, decreased oxidative type I myofibres, and decreased oxidative stress-detoxifying enzymes in skeletal muscle, which were associated with insulin resistance and decreased exercise endurance. Decreased levels of adiponectin and AdipoR1 in obesity may have causal roles in mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance seen in diabetes.
Skipped: PubMed ID 25824609 is a review article
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a metabolic fuel gauge conserved along the evolutionary scale in eukaryotes that senses changes in the intracellular AMP/ATP ratio. Recent evidence indicated an important role for AMPK in the therapeutic benefits of metformin, thiazolidinediones and exercise, which form the cornerstones of the clinical management of type 2 diabetes and associated metabolic disorders. In general, activation of AMPK acts to maintain cellular energy stores, switching on catabolic pathways that produce ATP, mostly by enhancing oxidative metabolism and mitochondrial biogenesis, while switching off anabolic pathways that consume ATP. This regulation can take place acutely, through the regulation of fast post-translational events, but also by transcriptionally reprogramming the cell to meet energetic needs. Here we demonstrate that AMPK controls the expression of genes involved in energy metabolism in mouse skeletal muscle by acting in coordination with another metabolic sensor, the NAD+-dependent type III deacetylase SIRT1. AMPK enhances SIRT1 activity by increasing cellular NAD+ levels, resulting in the deacetylation and modulation of the activity of downstream SIRT1 targets that include the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1alpha and the forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) and O3 (FOXO3a) transcription factors. The AMPK-induced SIRT1-mediated deacetylation of these targets explains many of the convergent biological effects of AMPK and SIRT1 on energy metabolism.
Skipped: PubMed ID 24997879 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 20848587 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 22983298 is a review article
The tumor suppressor p53 is activated upon genotoxic and oxidative stress and in turn inhibits cell proliferation and growth through induction of specific target genes. Cell growth is positively regulated by mTOR, whose activity is inhibited by the TSC1:TSC2 complex. Although genotoxic stress has been suggested to inhibit mTOR via p53-mediated activation of mTOR inhibitors, the precise mechanism of this link was unknown. We now demonstrate that the products of two p53 target genes, Sestrin1 and Sestrin2, activate the AMP-responsive protein kinase (AMPK) and target it to phosphorylate TSC2 and stimulate its GAP activity, thereby inhibiting mTOR. Correspondingly, Sestrin2-deficient mice fail to inhibit mTOR signaling upon genotoxic challenge. Sestrin1 and Sestrin2 therefore provide an important link between genotoxic stress, p53 and the mTOR signaling pathway.
Skipped: PubMed ID 25601466 is a review article
Recent studies in diverse organisms implicate proto-oncogenic pathways, including insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), Ras and AKT/protein kinase B in the ageing process. Although IGF-I is thought to contribute to cancer by promoting growth and preventing apoptosis, evidence from model organisms suggests that proto-oncogene homologues might contribute to the DNA mutations and chromosomal damage that are observed in tumour cells by increasing DNA damage, in both dividing and non-dividing cells, and involving error-prone systems in DNA repair. This raises the possibility that cancer can be reduced by chronic downregulation of pro-ageing pathways.
Skipped: PubMed ID 20098959 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 26682004 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16304601 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 12610293 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 25153840 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 20097433 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 22094419 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 26525455 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 18373439 is a review article
The conserved DAF-16/FOXO transcription factors and SIR-2.1/SIRT1 deacetylases are critical for diverse biological processes, particularly longevity and stress response; and complex regulation of DAF-16/FOXO by SIR-2.1/SIRT1 is central to appropriate biological outcomes. Caenorhabditis elegans Host Cell Factor 1 (HCF-1) is a longevity determinant previously shown to act as a co-repressor of DAF-16. We report here that HCF-1 represents an integral player in the regulatory loop linking SIR-2.1/SIRT1 and DAF-16/FOXO in both worms and mammals. Genetic analyses showed that hcf-1 acts downstream of sir-2.1 to influence lifespan and oxidative stress response in C. elegans. Gene expression profiling revealed a striking 80% overlap between the DAF-16 target genes responsive to hcf-1 mutation and sir-2.1 overexpression. Subsequent GO-term analyses of HCF-1 and SIR-2.1-coregulated DAF-16 targets suggested that HCF-1 and SIR-2.1 together regulate specific aspects of DAF-16-mediated transcription particularly important for aging and stress responses. Analogous to its role in regulating DAF-16/SIR-2.1 target genes in C. elegans, the mammalian HCF-1 also repressed the expression of several FOXO/SIRT1 target genes. Protein-protein association studies demonstrated that SIR-2.1/SIRT1 and HCF-1 form protein complexes in worms and mammalian cells, highlighting the conservation of their regulatory relationship. Our findings uncover a conserved interaction between the key longevity determinants SIR-2.1/SIRT1 and HCF-1, and they provide new insights into the complex regulation of FOXO proteins.
Skipped: PubMed ID 23615258 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15768047 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 21841070 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 14534077 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 17684529 is a review article
