By mapping histone modifications in a human stem cell model of hepatic differentiation, we identified an enhancer landscape that is dynamic and stage specific, with many primed at the definitive endoderm stage. While hepatic enhancers gained active histone modifications, non-hepatic enhancers lost H3K4me1 after hepatic specification. T-box transcription factor 3 (TBX3) was found to bind to hepatic enhancers and promoters. TBX3 binding was transient, and only upon the dissociation of TBX3 from its bound regions were active histone modifications acquired. Subsequently, transcription was activated, supporting a role for TBX3 in directly activating the hepatic lineage. Constitutive overexpression of TBX3 indicated that dissociation of TBX3 is crucial for gene activation. TBX3 did not bind to any pancreatic regulatory regions directly, indicating indirect repression of the pancreatic lineage. Together, this suggests that TBX3 plays a role in identifying and bookmarking hepatic enhancers and promoters during specification, which subsequently will be activated to drive cell identity.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The enteric nervous system (ENS) is the intrinsic nervous system of the gut and controls essential functions, such as gut motility, intestinal barrier function, and water balance. The ENS displays a complex 3D architecture within the context of the gut and specific transcriptional states needed to control gut homeostasis. During development, the ENS develops from enteric neural progenitor cells (ENPs) that migrate into the gut and differentiate into functionally diverse neuron types. Incorrect ENS development can disrupt ENS function and induce various gut disorders, including the congenital disease Hirschsprung disease, or various other functional gut neurological disorders, such as esophageal achalasia. In this study, we used the zebrafish larval model and performed whole gut spatial genomic analysis (SGA) of the differentiating ENS at cellular resolution. To that end, a pipeline was developed that integrated early and late developmental ENS stages by linking various spatial and transcriptional dimensions to discover regionalized cellular groups and their co-expression similarity. We identified 3D networks of intact ENS surrounding the gut and predicted cellular connectivity properties based on the stage. Spatial variable genes, such as hoxb5b, hoxa4a, etv1, and ret, were regionalized along gut axes, suggesting they may have a precise spatiotemporal control of ENS development. The application of SGA to ENS development provides new insights into its cellular transcriptional networks and interactions and provides a baseline data set to further advance our understanding of gut neurodevelopmental disorders such as Hirschsprung disease and congenital enteric neuropathies.© 2025 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is an autoimmune, cholestatic liver disease characterized by inflammation and fibrosis surrounding bile ducts. The cellular crosstalk driving periductal fibrosis remains poorly defined. This study applied a multi-omics approach integrating MERSCOPE spatial transcriptomics, bulk RNA-seq, and SomaScan proteomics to characterize fibrotic periductal regions and their cell-cell communications. Macrophages (MP) expressing moderate-to-high CD163 were found co-localized with cholangiocytes, T cells, and collagen-producing hepatic stellate cells (HSC). Cell niche analysis identified periductal regions with elevated fibrotic signals, in which cell-cell communication analysis revealed MP-HSC interactions involving 17 fibrotic driver genes in MP (e.g., IFNGR1, CSF1R, CD163) and six fibrotic effector genes in HSC (e.g., COL1A2, VCAN, MMP2). In validation analyses, bulk RNA-seq data showed higher driver and effector gene scores in PSC with established fibrosis compared to early-stage PSC and autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). Plasma proteins encoded by MP driver genes were elevated in autoimmune liver disease (AILD) and in patients with elevated (≥3.29 kPa) liver stiffness on MR elastography. These findings suggest that macrophages engage in localized crosstalk with HSC, activating fibrotic gene programs and contributing to periductal fibrosis in PSC, thereby identifying potential molecular targets for therapeutic intervention.
The gene regulatory networks (GRNs) that control early heart formation are beginning to be understood, but lineage-specific GRNs remain largely undefined. We investigated networks controlled by the vital transcription factor MEF2C using a time course of single-nucleus RNA sequencing and ATAC sequencing in wild-type and Mef2c-null embryos. We identified a "posteriorized" cardiac gene signature and chromatin landscape in the absence of MEF2C. Integrating our multiomics data in a deep learning-based model, we constructed developmental trajectories for each of the outflow tract, ventricular, and inflow tract segments and alterations of these in Mef2c-null embryos. We computationally identified segment-specific MEF2C-dependent enhancers with activity in the developing zebrafish heart. Finally, using inferred GRNs, we discovered that the Mef2c-null heart malformations are partly driven by increased activity of the nuclear hormone receptor NR2F2. Our results delineate lineage-specific GRNs in the early heart tube and provide a generalizable framework for dissecting transcriptional networks governing developmental processes.© 2025 Muncie-Vasic et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Perioperative cognitive disorder (PND) affects up to 31% of surgical patients. Although clinical studies have identified a variety of risk factors, no effective prevention has been developed. From our previous cohort of PND patients, several single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) sites on ctnna2 were identified. The current study aims to decipher the role and regulatory mechanism of ctnna2 in the PND model and to develop decoy oligodeoxynucleotides (decoy) for the possible prevention of PND.Both mice model (exploratory laparotomy+isoflurane) and the neuronal model (TNFα+isoflurane, T + I) for PND were used. Bioinformatic research was utilized to identify transcriptive active areas on ctnna2, foxo3 sequence, and to predict possible transcriptional factors for regulation. Molecular biological techniques were used to decipher the regulatory mechanism and specific sites of the Sirt1-foxo3-ctnna2 axis in the development of PND. Finally, an decoy targeting the Foxo3-ctnna2 interaction was designed and tested for effectiveness in PND.Our results showed that the SNP rs12472215 is located at a newly defined enhancer region within the ctnna2 intron that can be regulated by Foxo3 in the human genome. The rs12472215 A>T mutation potentiates Foxo3's transcriptive inhibitory effect on ctnna2. Experimental laparotomy in mice revealed that hippocampal Foxo3 upregulation and α-N-catenin reduction are involved in PND development. ChIP-PCR deciphered two regulatory sites (R1 and R2) of Foxo3 on ctnna2 in the mice that are strengthened by T + I. siAscl1 abolished the rescue effect of carbenoxolone (CBX, Foxo3-specific inhibitor) on α-N-catenin expression in the T + I model, indicating that Foxo3 inhibits ctnna2 transcription indirectly through Ascl1. Reduction of Sirt1 increased acetyl-Foxo3, which enhanced its stability in PND. Sirt1 activation reduced Foxo3 expression, acetyl-Foxo3 level, and rescued α-N-catenin expression in T + I stimulated neurons. More importantly, the new decoy disturbing Foxo3-ctnna2 interaction effectively prevents α-N-catenin reduction, CA1 pyramidal neuron morphological change, electrophysiological dysfunction, and improves cognitive deficit in PND mice.These results provided a new revenue for identifying targets and developing interventions for PND. The decoy, due to its specificity and short acting time, merits further exploration for possible clinical use.© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Kidney explants are traditionally cultured at air-liquid interfaces, which disrupts 3D tissue structure and limits interpretation of developmental data. Here we develop a 3D culture technique using hydrogel embedding to capture kidney morphogenesis in real time. 3D culture better approximates in vivo-like niche spacing and tubule dynamics, as well as branching defects under control conditions and GDNF-RET signaling perturbations. To isolate the effect of material properties on explant development, we apply acrylated hyaluronic acid hydrogels that allow independent tuning of stiffness and adhesion. We find that sufficient stiffness and adhesive ligands are both required to maintain kidney shape. More adhesive hydrogels increase nephrons per ureteric bud (UB) tip while matrix stiffness has a "Goldilocks effect" centered at ~2 kPa. Our technique captures large-scale, in vivo-like tissue morphogenesis in 3D, improving insight into congenital disease phenotypes. Moreover, understanding the impact of boundary condition mechanics on kidney development benefits fundamental research and renal engineering.© 2025. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40843589
To investigate enhancer-mediated regulation of progesterone receptor (PGR) isoforms, PGR-A and PGR-B, in human endometrial stromal cells, and to determine how isoform modulation shapes the progesterone-responsive transcriptome and cistrome relevant to endometrial function.A CRISPR-based functional genomic screen was used to identify distal enhancers in telomerase-immortalized human endometrial stromal cells. Subsequent CRISPR targeting of identified enhancers and the PGR promoter was used to modulate PGR isoform balance and assess functional consequences.None.Engineered endometrial stromal cells were treated with medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) or vehicle.PGR isoform expression was assessed by western blot, the progesterone-responsive transcriptome was characterized by bulk RNA sequencing, and the PGR cistrome was characterized by Cut&Run.Two distal PGR enhancers were identified in endometrial stromal cells located approximately 60 and 220 kb upstream of the PGR transcription start site. CRISPR-based activation of these enhancers upregulated both PGR-A and PGR-B, while promoter activation primarily upregulated PGR-B. Bulk RNA sequencing revealed that shifting the PGR isoform balance altered the progesterone-regulated transcriptome: PGR-A/B-equivalent cells exhibited pro-inflammatory gene signatures, while PGR-B-dominant cells demonstrated suppression of inflammatory signaling and altered cell cycle programs. PGR Cut&Run profiling revealed distinct genomic binding patterns associated with each isoform profile. Integration of the PGR cistrome with chromatin interaction maps suggested that these isoforms directly regulate distinct gene subsets involved in inflammation and fibrosis. Mechanistically, ESR1 indirectly activated PGR-A expression, potentially through recruitment of FOXO1 at the distal enhancer, suggesting a non-canonical, enhancer-mediated mechanism of PGR regulation.Distal enhancers regulate the PGR isoform balance and shape the progesterone-responsive transcriptome in human endometrial stromal cells. This enhancer-mediated mechanism expands current models of PGR regulation beyond promoter-level control and may offer potential therapeutic targets to restore normal progesterone responsiveness in conditions marked by PGR isoform imbalance.Published by Elsevier Inc.
SLIT2, a secreted glycoprotein involved in axon guidance, immune modulation, and tumor progression, remains largely unexplored as a pharmacological target due to the absence of small-molecule modulators. Here, we present a proof-of-concept high-throughput screening platform that integrates Temperature-Related Intensity Change (TRIC) technology with time-resolved Förster resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET) to identify small molecules capable of disrupting the SLIT2/ROBO1 interaction. Screening a lipid metabolism-focused compound library (653 molecules) yielded bexarotene, as the most potent small molecule SLIT2 binder reported to date, with a dissociation constant (KD) of 2.62 µM. Follow-up TR-FRET assays demonstrated dose-dependent inhibition of SLIT2/ROBO1 interaction, with relative half-maximal inhibitory concentration (relative IC50) = 77.27 ± 17.32 µM, with a maximal inhibition (Imax) of ∼40 % at 400 µM. These findings suggest a novel extracellular activity of bexarotene and validate the combined use of TRIC and TR-FRET as a scalable screening strategy for SLIT2-targeted small molecules. This platform lays the groundwork for future high-throughput discovery efforts against SLIT2 and its signaling axis.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate ESR1 and estrogen-driven transcription in human endometrial stromal cells.RNA-seq and Cut&Run were performed on telomerase-immortalized human endometrial stromal cells with CRISPR-mediated ESR1 activation. Hi-C-based chromatin architecture analysis (H3K27ac HiChIP) was conducted in primary endometrial stromal cells.Biopsies from two healthy, reproductive-aged volunteers with regular menstrual cycles and no history of gynecological malignancies.ESR1-activated and control endometrial stromal cells were treated with estradiol (E2) or vehicle. Primary endometrial stromal cells were treated with vehicle or a decidualization cocktail.Differential gene expression analysis (RNA-seq) identified ligand-independent and -dependent ESR1 activity. Cut&Run profiled ESR1 genomic binding in ESR1-activated cells. H3K27ac HiChIP mapped hormone-induced changes in chromatin looping in primary cells.Among seven tested guide RNAs (gRNA), the ESR1-3 gRNA induced robust ESR1 activation and restored E2 responsiveness. Bulk RNA-seq revealed both ligand-dependent and -independent ESR1 transcriptional programs regulating inflammation, proliferation, and cancer-related pathways. Notably, 72% of differentially expressed genes overlapped with genes active in human endometrial tissue during the proliferative estrogen dominant phase, supporting their physiological relevance. Cut&Run-seq identified genome-wide ESR1 binding sites, with most binding sites located at distal regulatory elements. Integration of Cut&Run data with H3K27ac HiChIP chromatin loops linked distal ESR1 binding sites to gene promoters, including genes involved in decidualization (e.g., FOXO1) and endometrial cancer (e.g., ERRFI1, NRIP1, EPAS1). Functional assays showed ESR1 promotes cell viability and, in the presence of E2, enhances migration.CRISPR-mediated ESR1 activation restores estrogen responsiveness in endometrial stromal cells. Combined transcriptomic, cistromic, and chromatin architecture analyses reveal ESR1's role in regulating decidualization and inflammation-related gene networks, with relevance to endometrial pathologies including endometrial cancer. This model serves as a powerful tool to study estrogen signaling in endometrial stromal cell biology and related pathologies.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Given the extensive application of dexamethasone in both clinical settings and the livestock industry, human exposure to this drug can occur through various sources and pathways. Prior research has indicated that prenatal exposure to dexamethasone (PDE) heightens the risk of cognitive and emotional disorders in offspring. Axonal development impairment is a frequent pathological underpinning for neuronal dysfunction in these disorders, yet it remains unclear if it plays a role in the neural damage induced by PDE in the offspring. Through RNA-seq and bioinformatics analysis, we found that various signaling pathways related to nervous system development, including axonal development, were altered in the hippocampus of PDE offspring. Among them, the Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) signaling pathway was the most significantly altered and crucial for axonal development. By using miRNA-seq and targeting miRNAs and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression, we identified miR-210-3p and miR-362-5p, which can target and suppress SHH expression. Their abnormal high expression was associated with GR activation in PDE fetal rats. Further testing of PDE offspring rats and infant peripheral blood samples exposed to dexamethasone in utero showed that SHH expression was significantly decreased in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and was positively correlated with SHH expression in the hippocampus and the expression of the axonal development marker growth-associated protein-43. In summary, PDE-induced hippocampal GR-miR-210-3p/miR-362-5p-SHH signaling axis changes lead to axonal developmental damage. SHH expression in PBMCs may reflect axonal developmental damage in PDE offspring and could serve as a warning marker for fetal axonal developmental damage.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common progressive degenerative disease of the central nervous system in aging populations. This study aimed to investigate the effects of combined catalpol and tetramethylpyrazine (CT) in promoting axonal plasticity in AD and the potential underlying mechanism. Astrocytes were treated with different concentrations of compatible CT. Exosomes were collected and subjected to sequencing analysis, which was followed by the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis of differentially expressed genes. Amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 (APP/PS1) double-transfected male mice were used as the in vivo AD models. Astrocyte-derived exosomes that were transfected with cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) or CT treatment were injected into the tail vein of mice. The levels of CDK5, synaptic plasticity marker protein neurofilament 200 (NF200), and growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) in the hippocampus of mice were compared in each group. Immunofluorescence staining was used to detect the localization of STAT3 and to visualize synaptic morphology via β-tubulin-III (TUBB3). Astrocyte-derived exosomes transfected with siCDK5 or treated with CT were co-cultured with HT-22 cells, which were untransfected or silenced for signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Amyloid β-protein (Aβ)1-42 was induced in the in vitro AD models. The viability, apoptosis, and expression levels of NF200 and GAP-43 proteins in the hippocampal neurons of each group were compared. In total, 166 differentially expressed genes in CT-induced astrocyte-derived exosomes were included in the KEGG analysis, and they were found to be enriched in 12 pathways, mainly in axon guidance. CT treatment significantly increased the level of CDK5 mRNA in astrocyte-derived exosomes-these exosomes restored CDK5 mRNA and protein levels in the hippocampus of the in vivo AD model mice and the in vitro AD model; promoted p-STAT3 (Ser727), NF200 and GAP-43 proteins; and promoted the regeneration and extension of neuronal synapses. Silencing of CDK5 blocked both neuronal protection as well as induction of axonal plasticity in AD by CT-treated exosomes in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, silencing of STAT3 blocked both neuronal protection as well as induction of axonal plasticity in AD caused by CDK5 overexpression or CT-treated astrocyte-induced exosomes. CT promotes axonal plasticity in AD by inducing astrocytes to secrete exosomes carrying CDK5 mRNA and regulating STAT3 (Ser727) phosphorylation.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
To explore the effect and mechanism of Zuogui Pills in promoting neural tissue recovery and functional recovery in mice with ischemic stroke. Male C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into a sham group, a model group, and low-, medium, and high-dose Zuogui Pills groups(3.5, 7, and 14 g·kg~(-1)), with 15 mice in each group. The ischemic stroke model was established using photochemical embolization. Stiker remove and irregular ladder walking behavioral tests were conducted before modeling and on days 7, 14, 21, and 28 after medication. Triphenyl tetrazolium chloride(TTC) staining was performed on day 3 after modeling, and T2-weighted imaging(T2WI) and diffusion-weighted imaging(DWI) were performed on day 28 after medication to evaluate the extent of brain injury. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining was performed to observe the histology of the cerebral cortex. Axonal marker proteins myelin basic protein(MBP), growth-associated protein 43(GAP43), mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR), and its downstream phosphorylated s6 ribosomal protein(p-S6), as well as mechanism-related proteins osteopontin(OPN) and insulin-like growth factor 1(IGF-1), were detected using immunofluorescence and Western blot. Zuogui Pills had a certain restorative effect on the neural function impairment caused by ischemic stroke in mice. TTC staining showed white infarct foci in the sensory-motor cortex area, and T2WI imaging revealed cystic necrosis in the sensory-motor cortex area. The Zuogui Pills groups showed less brain tissue damage, fewer scars, and more capillaries. The number of neuronal axons in those groups was higher than that in the model group, and neuronal activity was stronger. The expression of GAP43, OPN, IGF-1, and mTOR proteins in the Zuogui Pills groups was higher than that in the model group. In summary, Zuogui Pills can promote the recovery of neural function and axonal growth in mice with ischemic stroke, and its mechanism may be related to the activation of the OPN/IGF-1/mTOR signaling pathway.
Previous studies have shown that F-53B exposure may be neurotoxic to animals, but there is a lack of epidemiological evidence, and its mechanism needs further investigation.Serum F-53B concentrations and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) were evaluated in 314 growing children from Guangzhou, China, and the association between them were analyzed. To study the developmental neurotoxicity of F-53B, experiments on sucking mice exposed via placental transfer and breast milk was performed. Maternal mice were orally exposed to 4, 40, and 400 μg/L of F-53B from postnatal day 0 (GD0) to postnatal day 21 (PND 21). Several genes and proteins related to neurodevelopment, dopamine anabolism, and synaptic plasticity were examined by qPCR and western blot, respectively, while dopamine contents were detected by ELISA kit in weaning mice.The result showed that F-53B was positively associated with poor WCST performance. For example, with an interquartile range increase in F-53B, the change with 95 % confidence interval (CI) of correct response (CR), and non-perseverative errors (NPE) was -2.47 (95 % CI: -3.89, -1.05, P = 0.001), 2.78 (95 % CI: 0.79, 4.76, P = 0.007), respectively. Compared with the control group, the highest exposure group of weaning mice had a longer escape latency (35.24 s vs. 51.18 s, P = 0.034) and a lesser distance movement (34.81 % vs. 21.02 %, P < 0.001) in the target quadrant, as observed from morris water maze (MWM) test. The protein expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and growth associated protein-43 (GAP-43) levels were decreased, as compared to control (0.367-fold, P < 0.001; 0.366-fold, P < 0.001; respectively). We also observed the upregulation of dopamine transporter (DAT) (2.940-fold, P < 0.001) consistent with the trend of dopamine content (1.313-fold, P < 0.001) in the hippocampus.Early life exposure to F-53B is associated with adverse neurobehavioral changes in developing children and weaning mice which may be modulated by dopamine-dependent synaptic plasticity.Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
To test whether visual experience and/or eye movements drive the postnatal development of palisade endings in extraocular muscles.In three newborn cats, the right eye was covered until 30 days from postnatal (P) day 7 (before opening their eyes), and in three cats both eyes were covered until 45 days, also from P7. To block eye movements, another seven cats received a retrobulbar injection of botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT-A) into the left orbit at birth and survived for 45 days (three cats) and 95 days (four cats). The distal third of the rectus muscles containing the palisade endings was used for whole-mount preparation and triple-fluorescence labeling with anti-neurofilament along with (1) anti-synaptophysin and phalloidin or (2) anti-growth associated protein 43 (GAP43) and phalloidin. Immunolabeled specimens were analyzed in the confocal laser scanning microscope.After unilateral and bilateral dark rearing, palisade endings were qualitatively and quantitatively equal to those from age-matched controls. After BoNT-A induced eye immobilization for 45 or 95 days, palisade endings were absent in the superior rectus and lateral rectus muscles and only present in the inferior rectus and medial rectus muscle. These BoNT-A-treated palisade endings were rudimentary and reduced in number, and the expression of the neuronal developmental protein GAP43 was significantly reduced.This study demonstrates that eye immobilization, but not visual deprivation, affects palisade ending development. Palisade endings develop in the first month of life, and the present findings indicate that, during this time window, palisade endings are prone to oculomotor perturbations.
The innervation of the long head of the biceps tendon (LHBT) is not sufficiently documented. This is a drawback since pathologies of the LHBT are a major source of shoulder pain. Thus, the study aimed to characterize structurally and molecularly nervous elements of the LHBT. The proximal part of 11 LHBTs was harvested intraoperatively. There were 8 female and 3 male specimens. Age ranged from 66 to 86 years. For structural analyses, nervous elements were viewed in the transmission electron microscope. For molecular characterization, we used general neuronal markers including antibodies against neurofilament and protein gene product 9.5 (PGP9.5) as well as specific neuronal markers including antibodies against myelin basic protein (MBP), calcitonin gene-related product (CGRP), substance P (SP), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and growth-associated protein 43 (GAP43). Anti-neurofilament and anti-PGP9.5 visualized the overall innervation. Anti-MBP visualized myelination, anti-CGRP and anti-SP nociceptive fibers, anti-TH sympathetic nerve fibers, and anti-GAP43 nerve fibers during development and regeneration. Immunolabeled sections were analyzed in the confocal laser scanning microscope. We show that the LHBT contains unmyelinated as well as myelinated nerve fibers which group in nerve fascicles and follow blood vessels. Manny myelinated and unmyelinated axons exhibit molecular features of nociceptive nerve fibers. Another subpopulation of unmyelinated axons exhibits molecular characteristics of sympathetic nerve fibers. Unmyelinated sympathetic fibers and unmyelinated nociceptive fibers express proteins that are found during development and regeneration. Present findings support the hypothesis that ingrowth of nociceptive fibers are the source of chronic tendon pain.
The medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF) is the first axon tract to develop in the ventral vertebrate brain. It originates in the diencephalon and projects caudally into the spinal cord, pioneering the path for later developing axons. Previous anatomical and expression analyses in the chicken suggested Semaphorin 3 A (Sema3A) as the candidate to repel the amniote MLF from the forebrain. However, studies in the zebrafish implicated a distantly related semaphorin with a role in axon fasciculation, not guidance. Thus, the mechanism accounting for the caudal projection of the MLF remains unclear. Here we show that misexpression of Sema3A or grafting of Sema3A-expressing cells into the path of the MLF diverts the axons or blocks their outgrowth in chicken embryos. In vitro, Sema3A exposure resulted in the collapse of MLF growth cones. A dominant-negative approach or siRNA to interfere with the function of the Sema3A receptor Neuropilin1 allowed MLF axons to project rostrally. Together, this suggests that Sema3a repulsion directs the caudal extension of the MLF to pioneer the ventral longitudinal tract.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
WT1 encodes a podocyte transcription factor whose variants can cause an untreatable glomerular disease in early childhood. Although WT1 regulates many podocyte genes, it is poorly understood which of them are initiators in disease and how they subsequently influence other cell-types in the glomerulus. We hypothesised that this could be resolved using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and ligand-receptor analysis to profile glomerular cell-cell communication during the early stages of disease in mice harbouring an orthologous human mutation in WT1 (Wt1R394W/+). Podocytes were the most dysregulated cell-type in the early stages of Wt1R394W/+ disease, with disrupted angiogenic signalling between podocytes and the endothelium, including the significant downregulation of transcripts for the vascular factors Vegfa and Nrp1. These signalling changes preceded glomerular endothelial cell loss in advancing disease, a feature also observed in biopsy samples from human WT1 glomerulopathies. Addition of conditioned medium from murine Wt1R394W/+ primary podocytes to wild-type glomerular endothelial cells resulted in impaired endothelial looping and reduced vascular complexity. Despite the loss of key angiogenic molecules in Wt1R394W/+ podocytes, the pro-vascular molecule adrenomedullin was upregulated in Wt1R394W/+ podocytes and plasma and its further administration was able to rescue the impaired looping observed when glomerular endothelium was exposed to Wt1R394W/+ podocyte medium. In comparative analyses, adrenomedullin upregulation was part of a common injury signature across multiple murine and human glomerular disease datasets, whilst other gene changes were unique to WT1 disease. Collectively, our study describes a novel role for altered angiogenic signalling in the initiation of WT1 glomerulopathy. We also identify adrenomedullin as a proangiogenic factor, which despite being upregulated in early injury, offers an insufficient protective response due to the wider milieu of dampened vascular signalling that results in endothelial cell loss in later disease. © 2024 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2024 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
A growth cone is a highly motile tip of an extending axon that is crucial for neural network formation. Three-dimensional-structured illumination microscopy, a type of super-resolution light microscopy with a resolution that overcomes the optical diffraction limitation (ca. 200 nm) of conventional light microscopy, is well suited for studying the molecular dynamics of intracellular events. Using this technique, we discovered a novel type of filopodia distributed along the z-axis ("z-filopodia") within the growth cone. Z-filopodia were typically oriented in the direction of axon growth, not attached to the substratum, protruded spontaneously without microtubule invasion, and had a lifetime that was considerably shorter than that of conventional filopodia. Z-filopodia formation and dynamics were regulated by actin-regulatory proteins, such as vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein, fascin, and cofilin. Chromophore-assisted laser inactivation of cofilin induced the rapid turnover of z-filopodia. An axon guidance receptor, neuropilin-1, was concentrated in z-filopodia and was transported together with them, whereas its ligand, semaphorin-3A, was selectively bound to them. Membrane domains associated with z-filopodia were also specialized and resembled those of lipid rafts, and their behaviors were closely related to those of neuropilin-1. The results suggest that z-filopodia have unique turnover properties, and unlike xy-filopodia, do not function as force-generating structures for axon extension.© 2024 International Society for Neurochemistry.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection continues to raise concerns worldwide. Numerous host factors involved in SARS-CoV-2 infection have been identified, but the regulatory mechanisms of these host factor remain unclear. Here, we report the role of G-quadruplexes (G4s) located in the host factor promoter region in SARS-CoV-2 infection. Using bioinformatics, biochemical, and biological assays, we provide evidence for the presence of G4 structures in the promoter regions of SARS-CoV-2 host factors NRP1. Specifically, we focus on two representative G4s in the NRP1 promoter and highlight its importance in SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis. The presence of the G4 structure greatly increases NRP1 expression, facilitating SARS-CoV-2 entry into cells. Utilizing published single-cell RNA sequencing data obtained from simulated SARS-CoV-2 infection in human bronchial epithelial cells (HBECs), we found that ciliated cells with high levels of NRP1 are prominently targeted by the virus during infection. Furthermore, our study identifies E2F1 act as a transcription factor that binds to G4s. These findings uncover a previously unknown mechanism underlying SARS-CoV-2 infection and suggest that targeting G4 structures could be a potential strategy for COVID-19 prevention and treatment.
The dysregulation of the axon guidance pathway is common in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), yet our understanding of its biological relevance is limited. Here, we investigated the functional role of the axon guidance cue SEMA3A in supporting PDAC progression.We integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic datasets of human PDAC with in situ hybridisation analyses of patients' tissues to evaluate SEMA3A expression in molecular subtypes of PDAC. Gain and loss of function experiments in PDAC cell lines and organoids were performed to dissect how SEMA3A contributes to define a biologically aggressive phenotype.In PDAC tissues, SEMA3A is expressed by stromal elements and selectively enriched in basal-like/squamous epithelial cells. Accordingly, expression of SEMA3A in PDAC cells is induced by both cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic determinants of the basal-like phenotype. In vitro, SEMA3A promotes cell migration as well as anoikis resistance. At the molecular level, these phenotypes are associated with increased focal adhesion kinase signalling through canonical SEMA3A-NRP1 axis. SEMA3A provides mouse PDAC cells with greater metastatic competence and favours intratumoural infiltration of tumour-associated macrophages and reduced density of T cells. Mechanistically, SEMA3A functions as chemoattractant for macrophages and skews their polarisation towards an M2-like phenotype. In SEMA3Ahigh tumours, depletion of macrophages results in greater intratumour infiltration by CD8+T cells and better control of the disease from antitumour treatment.Here, we show that SEMA3A is a stress-sensitive locus that promotes the malignant phenotype of basal-like PDAC through both cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic mechanisms.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ.
During the development of neural circuits, axons are guided by a variety of molecular cues to navigate through the brain and establish precise connections with correct partners at the right time and place. Many axon guidance cues have been identified and they play pleiotropic roles in not only axon guidance but also axon fasciculation, axon pruning, and synaptogenesis as well as cell migration, angiogenesis, and bone formation. In search of receptors for Sema3E in axon guidance, we unexpectedly found that Plexin B3 is highly expressed in retinal ganglion cells of zebrafish embryos when retinal axons are crossing the midline to form the chiasm. Plexin B3 has been characterized to be related to neurodevelopmental disorders. However, the investigation of its pathological mechanisms is hampered by the lack of appropriate animal model. We provide evidence that Plexin B3 is critical for axon guidance in vivo. Plexin B3 might function as a receptor for Sema3E while Neuropilin1 could be a co-receptor. The intracellular domain of Plexin B3 is required for Semaphorin signaling transduction. Our data suggest that zebrafish could be an ideal animal model for investigating the role and mechanisms of Sema3E and Plexin B3 in vivo.Copyright © 2024 Liu, Liu, Zhu, Zhu, Luo, Wang and Xu.
In marsupials, upper-layer cortical neurons derived from the progenitors of the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle (SVZ) mature morphologically and send their axons to form interhemispheric connections through the anterior commissure. In contrast, eutherians have evolved a new extra callosal pathway, the corpus callosum, that interconnects both hemispheres. In this study, we aimed to examine neurogenesis during the formation of cortical upper layers, including their morphological maturation in a marsupial species, namely the opossum (Monodelphis domestica). Furthermore, we studied how the axons of upper layers neurons pass through the anterior commissure of the opossum, which connects neocortical areas. We showed that upper-layer II/III neurons were generated within at least seven days in the opossum neocortex. Surprisingly, these neurons expressed special AT-rich sequence binding protein 2 (Satb2) and neuropilin 1 interacting protein (Nrp1), which are proteins known to be essential for the formation of the corpus callosum in eutherians. This indicates that extrinsic, but not intrinsic, cues could be key players in guiding the axons of newly generated cortical neurons in the opossum. Although oligodendrocyte precursor cells were present in the neocortex and anterior commissure, newly generated upper-layer neurons sent unmyelinated axons to the anterior commissure. We also found numerous GFAP-expressing progenitor cells in both brain structures, the neocortex and the anterior commissure. However, at P12-P17 in the opossums, a small population of astrocytes was observed only in the midline area of the anterior commissure. We postulate that in the opossum, midline astrocytes allow neocortical axons to be guided to cross the midline, as this structure resembles the glial wedge required by fibers to cross the midline area of the corpus callosum in the rodent.
Placenta accreta spectrum disorders are associated with severe maternal morbidity and mortality. Placenta accreta spectrum disorders involve excessive adherence of the placenta preventing separation at birth. Traditionally, this condition has been attributed to excessive trophoblast invasion; however, an alternative view is a fundamental defect in decidual biology.This study aimed to gain insights into the understanding of placenta accreta spectrum disorder by using single-cell and spatially resolved transcriptomics to characterize cellular heterogeneity at the maternal-fetal interface in placenta accreta spectrum disorders.To assess cellular heterogeneity and the function of cell types, single-cell RNA sequencing and spatially resolved transcriptomics were used. A total of 12 placentas were included, 6 placentas with placenta accreta spectrum disorder and 6 controls. For each placenta with placenta accreta spectrum disorder, multiple biopsies were taken at the following sites: placenta accreta spectrum adherent and nonadherent sites in the same placenta. Of note, 2 platforms were used to generate libraries: the 10× Chromium and NanoString GeoMX Digital Spatial Profiler for single-cell and spatially resolved transcriptomes, respectively. Differential gene expression analysis was performed using a suite of bioinformatic tools (Seurat and GeoMxTools R packages). Correction for multiple testing was performed using Clipper. In situ hybridization was performed with RNAscope, and immunohistochemistry was used to assess protein expression.In creating a placenta accreta cell atlas, there were dramatic difference in the transcriptional profile by site of biopsy between placenta accreta spectrum and controls. Most of the differences were noted at the site of adherence; however, differences existed within the placenta between the adherent and nonadherent site of the same placenta in placenta accreta. Among all cell types, the endothelial-stromal populations exhibited the greatest difference in gene expression, driven by changes in collagen genes, namely collagen type III alpha 1 chain (COL3A1), growth factors, epidermal growth factor-like protein 6 (EGFL6), and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and angiogenesis-related genes, namely delta-like noncanonical Notch ligand 1 (DLK1) and platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM1). Intraplacental tropism (adherent versus non-adherent sites in the same placenta) was driven by differences in endothelial-stromal cells with notable differences in bone morphogenic protein 5 (BMP5) and osteopontin (SPP1) in the adherent vs nonadherent site of placenta accreta spectrum.Placenta accreta spectrum disorders were characterized at single-cell resolution to gain insight into the pathophysiology of the disease. An atlas of the placenta at single cell resolution in accreta allows for understanding in the biology of the intimate maternal and fetal interaction. The contributions of stromal and endothelial cells were demonstrated through alterations in the extracellular matrix, growth factors, and angiogenesis. Transcriptional and protein changes in the stroma of placenta accreta spectrum shift the etiologic explanation away from "invasive trophoblast" to "loss of boundary limits" in the decidua. Gene targets identified in this study may be used to refine diagnostic assays in early pregnancy, track disease progression over time, and inform therapeutic discoveries.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The precise development of neuronal morphologies is crucial to the establishment of synaptic circuits and, ultimately, proper brain function. Signaling by the axon guidance cue semaphorin 3A (Sema3A) and its receptor complex of neuropilin-1 and plexin-A4 has multifunctional outcomes in neuronal morphogenesis. Downstream activation of the RhoGEF FARP2 through interaction with the lysine-arginine-lysine motif of plexin-A4 and consequent activation of the small GTPase Rac1 promotes dendrite arborization, but this pathway is dispensable for axon repulsion. Here, we investigated the interplay of small GTPase signaling mechanisms underlying Sema3A-mediated dendritic elaboration in mouse layer V cortical neurons in vitro and in vivo. Sema3A promoted the binding of the small GTPase Rnd1 to the amino acid motif lysine-valine-serine (LVS) in the cytoplasmic domain of plexin-A4. Rnd1 inhibited the activity of the small GTPase RhoA and the kinase ROCK, thus supporting the activity of the GTPase Rac1, which permitted the growth and branching of dendrites. Overexpression of a dominant-negative RhoA, a constitutively active Rac1, or the pharmacological inhibition of ROCK activity rescued defects in dendritic elaboration in neurons expressing a plexin-A4 mutant lacking the LVS motif. Our findings provide insights into the previously unappreciated balancing act between Rho and Rac signaling downstream of specific motifs in plexin-A4 to mediate Sema3A-dependent dendritic elaboration in mammalian cortical neuron development.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37894289 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Schizophrenia and nicotine misuse are a comorbid condition that frequently develops during adolescence. Considering the role of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) as a common neurobiological substrate for these psychiatric disorders, label-free proteomics was employed to identify NAcc deregulated proteins in male and female mouse models of schizophrenia with a history of adolescent nicotine exposure. Methods: Phencyclidine was used to model schizophrenia, and minipump infusions were used to model nicotine misuse. Results: Enrichment Reactome pathway and protein-protein interaction analyses showed that the cytoskeleton and associated synaptic plasticity mechanisms, energy metabolism, and nervous system development were affected in both sexes. In particular, Ncam1 (Neural cell adhesion molecule 1) could be of interest as a candidate marker of synaptic plasticity disbalance. Its deregulation in the NAcc of both sexes suggests that it lies at the core of the comorbidity pathophysiology. When considering sex-selective effects, Cs (Citrate synthase) and Mapk3 (Mitogen-activated protein kinase 3) were identified as exclusively deregulated in female and male mice, respectively. Since both proteins were previously shown to be exclusively deregulated in the medial prefrontal cortex of co-modeled mice, a common mesocortical and mesolimbic system effect can be inferred, supporting the role of aberrant energy metabolism and synaptic plasticity in the comorbidity model. Conclusions: The current data provide insights into the NAcc proteome disbalance in an adolescent preclinical model of combined schizophrenia and nicotine misuse, pointing to relevant pathways and early markers of the comorbidity.
Axon guidance molecules are critical for neuronal pathfinding because they regulate directionality and growth pace during nervous system development. However, the molecular mechanisms coordinating proper axonal extension and turning are poorly understood. Here, metastasis suppressor 1 (Mtss1), a membrane protrusion protein, ensured axonal extension while sensitizing axons to the Semaphorin 3E (Sema3E)-Plexin-D1 repulsive cue. Sema3E-Plexin-D1 signaling enhanced Mtss1 expression in projecting striatonigral neurons. Mtss1 localized to the neurite axonal side and regulated neurite outgrowth in cultured neurons. Mtss1 also aided Plexin-D1 trafficking to the growth cone, where it signaled a repulsive cue to Sema3E. Mtss1 ablation reduced neurite extension and growth cone collapse in cultured neurons. Mtss1-knockout mice exhibited fewer striatonigral projections and irregular axonal routes, and these defects were recapitulated in Plxnd1- or Sema3e-knockout mice. These findings demonstrate that repulsive axon guidance activates an exquisite autoregulatory program coordinating both axonal extension and steering during neuronal pathfinding.© 2024, Kim, Li et al.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has a poor prognosis and is highly metastatic. Our prior studies have demonstrated the critical role of axon guidance pathway genes in PDAC and the connection between neuronal development and the tumor microenvironment. A recent study newly identified 20 neuronal development genes [disks large homolog 2 (DLG2), neuron-glial-related cell adhesion molecule (NRCAM), neurexin3 (NRXN3), mitogen-activated protein kinase 10 (MAPK10), platelet-derived growth factor D (PDGFD), protein kinase C epsilon (PRKCE), potassium calcium-activated channel subfamily M alpha 1 (KCNMA1), polycystic kidney and hepatic disease 1 (PKHD1), neural cell adhesion molecule 1 (NCAM1), neuregulin-1 (NRG1), zinc finger protein 667 (ZNF667), cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), acyl-CoA medium-chain synthetase-3 (ACSM3), complement 6 (C6), protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type M (PTPRM), hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF1A), adenylyl cyclase 5 (ADCY5), adherens junctions-associated protein 1 (AJAP1), neurobeachin (NBEA), sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 9 (SCN9A)] that are associated with perineural invasion and poor prognosis of PDAC. The relationship between genetic alterations in these 20 genes and tumor immune microenvironment (TME) has not previously been investigated.We hence applied the sequential multiplex immunohistochemistry results of biopsy specimens from 63 PDAC patients to investigate this relationship.We found that, except for PTPRM and NBEA, genetic alterations involving these 20 genes are associated with significant changes in the densities of major immune cell subtypes. Except for AJAP1, the copy number loss involving this panel of neuronal development genes is significantly associated with changes in immune cell infiltrates. In contrast, the copy number gain in fewer genes, including NRXN3, ZNF667, ACSM3, C6, ADCY5, SCN9A, and PRKCE, is significantly associated with changes in immune cell infiltrates.Our study suggested that neuronal development genes play a role in modulating TME in a pancreatic cancer setting.
Axon guidance molecules were found to be the gene family most frequently altered in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) through mutations and copy number changes. However, the exact molecular mechanism regarding PDA development remained unclear. Using genetically engineered mouse models to examine one of the axon guidance molecules, semaphorin 3D (SEMA3D), we found a dual role for tumor-derived SEMA3D in malignant transformation of pancreatic epithelial cells and a role for nerve-derived SEMA3D in PDA development. This was demonstrated by the pancreatic-specific knockout of the SEMA3D gene from the KRAS G12D and TP53 R 172H mutation knock-in, PDX1-Cre (KPC) mouse model which demonstrated a delayed tumor initiation and growth comparing to the original KPC mouse model. Our results showed that SEMA3D knockout skews the macrophages in the pancreas away from M2 polarization, providing a potential mechanistic role of tumor-derived SEMA3D in PDA development. The KPC mice with the SEMA3D knockout remained metastasis-free, however, died from primary tumor growth. We then tested the hypothesis that a potential compensation mechanism could result from SEMA3D which is naturally expressed by the intratumoral nerves. Our study further revealed that nerve-derived SEMA3D does not reprogram macrophages directly, but reprograms macrophages indirectly through ARF6 signaling and lactate production in PDA tumor cells. SEMA3D increases tumor-secreted lactate which is sensed by GPCR132 on macrophages and subsequently stimulates pro-tumorigenic M2 polarization in vivo. Tumor intrinsic- and extrinsic-SEMA3D induced ARF6 signaling through its receptor Plexin D1 in a mutant KRAS-dependent manner. Consistently, RNA sequencing database analysis revealed an association of higher KRAS MUT expression with an increase in SEMA3D and ARF6 expression in human PDAs. Moreover, multiplex immunohistochemistry analysis showed an increased number of M2-polarized macrophages proximal to nerves in human PDA tissue expressing SEMA3D. Thus, this study suggests altered expression of SEMA3D in tumor cells lead to acquisition of cancer-promoting functions and the axon guidance signaling originating from nerves is "hijacked" by tumor cells to support their growth. Other axon guidance and neuronal development molecules may play a similar dual role which is worth further investigation.Tumor- and nerve-derived SEMA3D promotes tumor progression and metastasis through macrophage reprogramming in the tumor microenvironment.This study established the dual role of axon guidance molecule, SEMA3D, in the malignant transformation of pancreatic epithelial cells and of nerve-derived SEMA3D in PDA progression and metastasis. It revealed macrophage reprogramming as the mechanism underlying bothroles. Together, this research elucidated how inflammatory responses promote invasive PDA progression and metastasis through an oncogenic process.
B7 ligands (CD80 and CD86), expressed by professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs), activate the main co-stimulatory receptor CD28 on T cells in trans. However, in peripheral tissues, APCs expressing B7 ligands are relatively scarce. This raises the questions of whether and how CD28 co-stimulation occurs in peripheral tissues. Here, we report that CD8+ T cells displayed B7 ligands that interacted with CD28 in cis at membrane invaginations of the immunological synapse as a result of membrane remodeling driven by phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) and sorting-nexin-9 (SNX9). cis-B7:CD28 interactions triggered CD28 signaling through protein kinase C theta (PKCθ) and promoted CD8+ T cell survival, migration, and cytokine production. In mouse tumor models, loss of T cell-intrinsic cis-B7:CD28 interactions decreased intratumoral T cells and accelerated tumor growth. Thus, B7 ligands on CD8+ T cells can evoke cell-autonomous CD28 co-stimulation in cis in peripheral tissues, suggesting cis-signaling as a general mechanism for boosting T cell functionality.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The nervous system requires metabolites and oxygen supplied by the neurovascular network, but this necessitates close apposition of neurons and endothelial cells. We find motor neurons attract vessels with long-range VEGF signaling, but endothelial cells in the axonal pathway are an obstacle for establishing connections with muscles. It is unclear how this paradoxical interference from heterotypic neurovascular contacts is averted. Through a mouse mutagenesis screen, we show that Plexin-D1 receptor is required in endothelial cells for development of neuromuscular connectivity. Motor neurons release Sema3C to elicit short-range repulsion via Plexin-D1, thus displacing endothelial cells that obstruct axon growth. When this signaling pathway is disrupted, epaxial motor neurons are blocked from reaching their muscle targets and concomitantly vascular patterning in the spinal cord is altered. Thus, an integrative system of opposing push-pull cues ensures detrimental axon-endothelial encounters are avoided while enabling vascularization within the nervous system and along peripheral nerves.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV), the most medically relevant tick-transmitted flavivirus in Eurasia, targets the host central nervous system and frequently causes severe encephalitis. The severity of TBEV-induced neuropathogenesis is highly cell-type specific and the exact mechanism responsible for such differences has not been fully described yet. Thus, we performed a comprehensive analysis of alterations in host poly-(A)/miRNA/lncRNA expression upon TBEV infection in vitro in human primary neurons (high cytopathic effect) and astrocytes (low cytopathic effect). Infection with severe but not mild TBEV strain resulted in a high neuronal death rate. In comparison, infection with either of TBEV strains in human astrocytes did not. Differential expression and splicing analyses with an in silico prediction of miRNA/mRNA/lncRNA/vd-sRNA networks found significant changes in inflammatory and immune response pathways, nervous system development and regulation of mitosis in TBEV Hypr-infected neurons. Candidate mechanisms responsible for the aforementioned phenomena include specific regulation of host mRNA levels via differentially expressed miRNAs/lncRNAs or vd-sRNAs mimicking endogenous miRNAs and virus-driven modulation of host pre-mRNA splicing. We suggest that these factors are responsible for the observed differences in the virulence manifestation of both TBEV strains in different cell lines. This work brings the first complex overview of alterations in the transcriptome of human astrocytes and neurons during the infection by two TBEV strains of different virulence. The resulting data could serve as a starting point for further studies dealing with the mechanism of TBEV-host interactions and the related processes of TBEV pathogenesis.© 2022 The Authors.
Selective macroautophagy/autophagy maintains cellular homeostasis through the lysosomal degradation of specific cellular proteins or organelles. The pro-survival effect of selective autophagy has been well-characterized, but the mechanism by which it drives cell death is still poorly understood. Here, we use a quantitative proteomic approach to identify HPCAL1 (hippocalcin like 1) as a novel autophagy receptor for the selective degradation of CDH2 (cadherin 2) during ferroptosis. HPCAL1-dependent CDH2 depletion increases susceptibility to ferroptotic death by reducing membrane tension and favoring lipid peroxidation. Site-directed mutagenesis aided by bioinformatic analyses revealed that the autophagic degradation of CDH2 requires PRKCQ (protein kinase C theta)-mediated HPCAL1 phosphorylation on Thr149, as well as a non-classical LC3-interacting region motif located between amino acids 46-51. An unbiased drug screening campaign involving 4208 small molecule compounds led to the identification of a ferroptosis inhibitor that suppressed HPCAL1 expression. The genetic or pharmacological inhibition of HPCAL1 prevented ferroptosis-induced tumor suppression and pancreatitis in suitable mouse models. These findings provide a framework for understanding how selective autophagy promotes ferroptotic cell death.Abbreviations: ANXA7: annexin A7; ARNTL: aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator like; CCK8: cell counting kit-8; CDH2: cadherin 2; CETSAs: cellular thermal shift assays; CPT2: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2; DAMP, danger/damage-associated molecular pattern; DPPH: 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl; DFO: deferoxamine; EBNA1BP2: EBNA1 binding protein 2; EIF4G1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4 gamma 1; FBL: fibrillarin; FKBP1A: FKBP prolyl isomerase 1A; FTH1: ferritin heavy chain 1; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; GSDMs: gasdermins; HBSS: Hanks' buffered salt solution; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; HNRNPUL1: heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U like 1; HPCAL1: hippocalcin like 1; H1-3/HIST1H1D: H1.3 linker histone, cluster member; IKE: imidazole ketone erastin; KD: knockdown; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAGOH: mago homolog, exon junction complex subunit; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MDA: malondialdehyde; MLKL: mixed lineage kinase domain like pseudokinase; MPO: myeloperoxidase; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OE: overexpressing; OSTM1: osteoclastogenesis associated transmembrane protein 1; PRKC/PKC: protein kinase C; PRKAR1A: protein kinase cAMP-dependent type I regulatory subunit alpha; PRDX3: peroxiredoxin 3; PTGS2: prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SLC7A11: solute carrier family 7 member 11; SLC40A1: solute carrier family 40 member 1; SPTAN1: spectrin alpha, non-erythrocytic 1; STS: staurosporine; UBE2M: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 M; ZYX: zyxin.
Post-stroke vascular remodeling, including angiogenesis, facilitates functional recovery. Proper vascular repair is important for efficient post-stroke recovery; however, the underlying mechanisms coordinating the diverse signaling pathways involved in vascular remodeling remain largely unknown. Recently, axon guidance molecules were revealed as key players in injured vessel remodeling. One such molecule, Semaphorin 3E (Sema3E), and its receptor, Plexin-D1, control vascular development by regulating vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling. In this study, using a mouse model of transient brain infarction, we aimed to investigate whether Sema3E-Plexin-D1 signaling was involved in cerebrovascular remodeling after ischemic injury. We found that ischemic damage rapidly induced Sema3e expression in the neurons of peri-infarct regions, followed by Plexin-D1 upregulation in remodeling vessels. Interestingly, Plexin-D1 reemergence was concurrent with brain vessels entering an active angiogenic process. In line with this, Plxnd1 ablation worsened neurological deficits, infarct volume, neuronal survival rate, and blood flow recovery. Furthermore, reduced and abnormal vascular morphogenesis was caused by aberrantly increased VEGF signaling. In Plxnd1 knockout mice, we observed significant extravasation of intravenously administered tracers in the brain parenchyma, junctional protein downregulation, and mislocalization in regenerating vessels. This suggested that the absence of Sema3E-Plexin-D1 signaling is associated with blood-brain barrier (BBB) impairment. Finally, the abnormal behavioral performance, aberrant vascular phenotype, and BBB breakdown defects in Plxnd1 knockout mice were restored following the inhibition of VEGF signaling during vascular remodeling. These findings demonstrate that Sema3E-Plexin-D1 signaling can promote functional recovery by downregulating VEGF signaling in the injured adult brain.© 2021. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 33150251 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 40272927 is a review article
The risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) significantly increases in individuals carrying the APOEε4 allele. Elderly cognitively healthy individuals with APOEε4 also exist, suggesting the presence of cellular mechanisms that counteract the pathological effects of APOEε4; however, these mechanisms are unknown. We hypothesized that APOEε4 carriers without dementia might carry genetic variations that could protect them from developing APOEε4-mediated AD pathology. To test this, we leveraged whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data in the National Institute on Aging Alzheimer's Disease Family Based Study (NIA-AD FBS), Washington Heights/Inwood Columbia Aging Project (WHICAP), and Estudio Familiar de Influencia Genetica en Alzheimer (EFIGA) cohorts and identified potentially protective variants segregating exclusively among unaffected APOEε4 carriers. In homozygous unaffected carriers above 70 years old, we identified 510 rare coding variants. Pathway analysis of the genes harboring these variants showed significant enrichment in extracellular matrix (ECM)-related processes, suggesting protective effects of functional modifications in ECM proteins. We prioritized two genes that were highly represented in the ECM-related gene ontology terms, (FN1) and collagen type VI alpha 2 chain (COL6A2) and are known to be expressed at the blood-brain barrier (BBB), for postmortem validation and in vivo functional studies. An independent analysis in a large cohort of 7185 APOEε4 homozygous carriers found that rs140926439 variant in FN1 was protective of AD (OR = 0.29; 95% CI [0.11, 0.78], P = 0.014) and delayed age at onset of disease by 3.37 years (95% CI [0.42, 6.32], P = 0.025). The FN1 and COL6A2 protein levels were increased at the BBB in APOEε4 carriers with AD. Brain expression of cognitively unaffected homozygous APOEε4 carriers had significantly lower FN1 deposition and less reactive gliosis compared to homozygous APOEε4 carriers with AD, suggesting that FN1 might be a downstream driver of APOEε4-mediated AD-related pathology and cognitive decline. To validate our findings, we used zebrafish models with loss-of-function (LOF) mutations in fn1b-the ortholog for human FN1. We found that fibronectin LOF reduced gliosis, enhanced gliovascular remodeling, and potentiated the microglial response, suggesting that pathological accumulation of FN1 could impair toxic protein clearance, which is ameliorated with FN1 LOF. Our study suggests that vascular deposition of FN1 is related to the pathogenicity of APOEε4, and LOF variants in FN1 may reduce APOEε4-related AD risk, providing novel clues to potential therapeutic interventions targeting the ECM to mitigate AD risk.© 2024. The Author(s).
During early development, the enteric nervous system forms from the migration of enteric neural crest cells (ENCCs) from the foregut to the hindgut, where they undergo proliferation and differentiation facilitated by interactions with enteric mesenchymal cells (EMCs). This study investigates the impact on ENCC migration of EMC-ENCC communication mediated by GFRA1b expressed in EMCs. GFRA1-expressing cells in day 11-12 (E11-12) mouse embryos differentiated into smooth muscle cells from E12 onwards. Observations at E12-13.5 revealed high levels of GFRA1 expression on the anti-mesenteric side of the hindgut, correlating with enhanced ENCC migration. This indicates that GFRA1 in EMCs plays a role in ENCC migration during development. Examining GFRA1 isoforms, we found high levels of GFRA1b, which lacks amino acids 140-144, in EMCs. To assess the impact of GFRA1 isoforms on EMC-ENCC communication, we conducted neurosphere drop assays. This revealed that GFRA1b-expressing cells promoted GDNF-dependent extension and increased neurite density in ENCC neurospheres. Co-culture of ENCC mimetic cells expressing RET and GFRA1a with EMC mimetic cells expressing GFRA1a, GFRA1b, or vector alone showed that only GFRA1b-expressing co-cultured cells sustained RET phosphorylation in ENCC-mimetic cells for over 120 min upon GDNF stimulation. Our study provides evidence that GFRA1b-mediated cell-to-cell communication plays a critical role in ENCC motility in enteric nervous system development. These findings contribute to understanding the cellular interactions and signaling mechanisms that underlie enteric nervous system formation and highlight potential therapeutic targets for gastrointestinal motility disorders.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The enteric nervous system (ENS), a collection of neural cells contained in the wall of the gut, is of fundamental importance to gastrointestinal and systemic health. According to the prevailing paradigm, the ENS arises from progenitor cells migrating from the neural crest and remains largely unchanged thereafter. Here, we show that the lineage composition of maturing ENS changes with time, with a decline in the canonical lineage of neural-crest derived neurons and their replacement by a newly identified lineage of mesoderm-derived neurons. Single cell transcriptomics and immunochemical approaches establish a distinct expression profile of mesoderm-derived neurons. The dynamic balance between the proportions of neurons from these two different lineages in the post-natal gut is dependent on the availability of their respective trophic signals, GDNF-RET and HGF-MET. With increasing age, the mesoderm-derived neurons become the dominant form of neurons in the ENS, a change associated with significant functional effects on intestinal motility which can be reversed by GDNF supplementation. Transcriptomic analyses of human gut tissues show reduced GDNF-RET signaling in patients with intestinal dysmotility which is associated with reduction in neural crest-derived neuronal markers and concomitant increase in transcriptional patterns specific to mesoderm-derived neurons. Normal intestinal function in the adult gastrointestinal tract therefore appears to require an optimal balance between these two distinct lineages within the ENS.
Niche-derived growth factors support self-renewal of mouse spermatogonial stem and progenitor cells through ERK MAPK signaling and other pathways. At the same time, dysregulated growth factor-dependent signaling has been associated with loss of stem cell activity and aberrant differentiation. We hypothesized that growth factor signaling through the ERK MAPK pathway in spermatogonial stem cells is tightly regulated within a narrow range through distinct intracellular negative feedback regulators. Evaluation of candidate extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-responsive genes known to dampen downstream signaling revealed robust induction of specific negative feedback regulators, including Spry4, in cultured mouse spermatogonial stem cells in response to glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor or fibroblast growth factor 2. Undifferentiated spermatogonia in vivo exhibited high levels of Spry4 mRNA. Quantitative single-cell analysis of ERK MAPK signaling in spermatogonial stem cell cultures revealed both dynamic signaling patterns in response to growth factors and disruption of such effects when Spry4 was ablated, due to dysregulation of ERK MAPK downstream of RAS. Whereas negative feedback regulator expression decreased during differentiation, loss of Spry4 shifted cell fate toward early differentiation with concomitant loss of stem cell activity. Finally, a mouse Spry4 reporter line revealed that the adult spermatogonial stem cell population in vivo is demarcated by strong Spry4 promoter activity. Collectively, our data suggest that negative feedback-dependent regulation of ERK MAPK is critical for preservation of spermatogonial stem cell fate within the mammalian testis.© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for the Study of Reproduction.
The nucleus ambiguus (NAmb) is a column of neurons in the medulla oblongata, involved in bulbar functions. Expression of Glial Cell-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (GDNF) and its receptors (GDNFR) is observed within the cell bodies during reinnervation following recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) injury. Little is known regarding GDNFR expression in the formation of the NAmb and the laryngeal innervation during embryogenesis. Understanding the timing and pattern of GDNFR expression in embryogenesis versus after RLN injury may provide insights into therapeutic targets for regeneration after RLN injury.Laboratory experiment.Rat brainstems at E14.5/E16.5/E18.5/E20.5/adult were stained for GDNFR: GFRα-1/GFRα-2/GFRα-3/Ret. Islet1 and choline acetyltransferase were used as cell body markers. Sections were observed using fluorescent microscopy and quantified through manual cell counting.Expression of GFRα-1, GFRα-3, and Ret was identified within the NAmb, hypoglossal, and facial nuclei of the adult medulla. During development, GFRα-1 immunoreactivity was seen at E20.5. GFRα-2 expression was not observed at any timepoint. GFRα-3 expression began at E16.5. Ret expression within nerve fibers in the NAmb were observed beginning at E14.5, but never in the cell bodies.Embryonic GDNFR expression in the NAmb differs from that of the adult after RLN injury. The developing brainstem experienced upregulation at discrete timepoints with signaling sustained through adulthood. In contrast, adult RLN-transected rats experienced patterns of up and down regulation. GFRα-1 may contribute to muscle targeting and neuromuscular junction maturation, GFRα-3 may contribute to both, as well as axon guidance. It is likely that GDNF is functioning via a Ret-independent pathway.NA Laryngoscope, 133:2240-2247, 2023.© 2022 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.
The intricate neuronal wiring during development requires cytoskeletal reorganization orchestrated by signaling cues. Because cytoskeletal remodeling is a hallmark of cell migration, we investigated whether metastatic cancer cells exploit axon guidance proteins to migrate. Indeed, in breast cancer patients, we found a significant correlation between mesenchymal markers and the expression of dihydropyrimidinase-like 2 (DPYSL2), a regulator of cytoskeletal dynamics in growing axons. Strikingly, DPYSL2 knockout in mesenchymal-like breast cancer cells profoundly inhibited cell migration, invasion, stemness features, tumor growth rate, and metastasis. Next, we decoded the molecular mechanism underlying this phenomenon and revealed an interaction between DPYSL2 and Janus kinase 1 (JAK1). This binding is crucial for activating signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and the subsequent expression of vimentin, the promigratory intermediate filament. These findings identify DPYSL2 as a molecular link between oncogenic signaling pathways and cytoskeletal reorganization in migrating breast cancer cells.© 2022 Abu Rmaileh et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 34575824 is a review article
Axon guidance proteins have been found to play a regenerative role in the peripheral nervous system and the cornea. Netrin-4 is a member of the Netrins family of axon guidance proteins implicated in diabetic retinopathy and corneal hemangiogenesis. However, its effects on corneal nerve and epithelium repair are not well understood. We performed in vitro and in vivo studies to assess the effects of Netrin-4 in corneal wound healing. We found that Netrin-4 induced extensive neurite growth and branching in trigeminal ganglia neurons and accelerated the scratch closure of corneal epithelial cells. In vivo, the dual action of Netrin-4 enhanced corneal epithelium healing and nerve regeneration in mice subjected to corneal epithelium debridement. Inhibition studies demonstrate that Netrin-4-induced neuronal growth may be mediated by interaction with Neogenin or α6β1 Integrin receptors. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that Netrin-4 has trophic and neuroregenerative effects in the cornea and could be a suitable therapeutic target to treat corneal injury.©2025 The Author(s) FASEB BioAdvances published by The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Satellite cells are indispensable for skeletal muscle regeneration and hypertrophy by forming nascent myofibers (myotubes). They synthesize multi-potent modulator netrins (secreted subtypes: netrin-1, -3, and -4), originally found as classical neural axon guidance molecules. While netrin-1 and -3 have key roles in myogenic differentiation, the physiological significance of netrin-4 is still unclear. This study examined whether netrin-4 regulates myofiber type commitment and myotube formation. Initially, the expression profiles indicated that satellite cells isolated from the extensor digitorum longus muscle (EDL muscle: fast-twitch myofiber-abundant) expressed slightly more netrin-4 than the soleus muscle (slow-type abundant) cells. As netrin-4 knockdown inhibited both slow- and fast-type myotube formation, netrin-4 may not directly regulate myofiber type commitment. However, netrin-4 knockdown in satellite cell-derived myoblasts reduced the myotube fusion index, while exogenous netrin-4 promoted myotube formation, even though netrin-4 expression level was maximum during the initiation stage of myogenic differentiation. Furthermore, netrin-4 knockdown also inhibited MyoD (a master transcriptional factor of myogenesis) and Myomixer (a myoblast fusogenic molecule) expression. These data suggest that satellite cells synthesize netrin-4 during myogenic differentiation initiation to promote their own fusion, stimulating the MyoD-Myomixer signaling axis.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The abnormal accumulation and aggregation of the misfolded α-synuclein protein is the neuropathological hallmark of all α-synucleinopathies, including Parkinson's disease. The secreted proteins known as netrins (netrin-1, netrin-3, and netrin-4) are related to laminin and have a role in the molecular pathway for axon guidance and cell survival. Interestingly, only netrin-1 is significantly expressed in the substantia nigra (SN) of healthy adult brains and its expression inversely correlates with that of α-synuclein, which prompted us to look into the role of α-synuclein and netrin-1 molecular interaction in the future of dopaminergic neurons. Here, we showed that netrin-1 and α-synuclein directly interacted in pre-formed fibrils (PFFs) generation test, real time binding assay, and co-immunoprecipitation with neurotoxin treated cell lysates. Netrin-1 deficiency appeared to activate the dopaminergic neuronal cell death signal pathway via α-synuclein aggregation and hyperphosphorylation of α-synuclein S129. Taken together, netrin-1 can be a promising therapeutic molecule in Parkinson's disease. [BMB Reports 2023; 56(2): 126-131].
Skipped: PubMed ID 36350538 is a review article
Axon guidance proteins are essential for axonal pathfinding during development. In adulthood, they have been described as pleiotropic proteins with multiple roles in different organs and tissues. While most studies on the roles of these proteins in the cornea have been performed on the Semaphorin family members, with few reports on Netrins or Ephrins, their function in corneal epithelium wound healing and functional nerve regeneration is largely unknown. Here, we studied the expression of ligands belonging to three distinct axon guidance families (Semaphorins, Ephrins, and Netrins) and their most commonly associated receptors in the cornea and trigeminal ganglia (TG) using immunofluorescence staining and RT-qPCR. We also evaluated how their expression recovers after corneal epithelium injury. We found that all ligands studied (Sema3A, Sema3F, EphrinB1, EphrinB2, Netrin-1, and Netrin-4) are abundantly expressed in both the TG and corneal epithelium. Similarly, their receptors (Neuropilin-1, Neuropilin-2, PlexinA1, PlexinA3, EphB2, EphB4, Neogenin, UNC5H1 and DCC) are also expressed in both tissues. Upon corneal epithelium injury, quick recovery of both ligands and receptors was observed at the protein and gene expression levels. While the timing and expression levels vary among these proteins, in general, most of them remained upregulated for several weeks after injury. We propose that the initial protein expression recovery may be related to corneal epithelium recovery since Sema3A, EphrinB2 and Netrin-4 accelerated corneal epithelial cells wound healing. The sustained high expression levels may be functionally related to nerve regeneration and/or patterning. Whilst further studies are required to test this hypothesis, this work contributes to unraveling their function in normal and injured cornea.Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
In the central nervous system, myelin is attached to the axon in the paranodal region by a trimolecular complex of Neurofascin155 (NF155) in the myelin membrane, interacting with Caspr1 and Contactin1 on the axolemma. Alternative splicing of a single Neurofascin transcript generates several different Neurofascins expressed by several cell types, but NF155, which is expressed by oligodendrocytes, contains a domain in the third fibronectinIII-like region of the molecule that is unique. The immunoglobulin 5-6 domain of NF155 is essential for binding to Contactin1, but less is known about the functions of the NF155-unique third fibronectinIII-like domain. Mutations and autoantibodies to this region are associated with several neurodevelopmental and demyelinating nervous system disorders. Here we used Crispr-Cas9 gene editing to delete a 9 bp sequence of NF155 in this unique domain, which has recently been identified as a thrombin binding site and implicated in plasticity of the myelin sheath. This small deletion results in dysmyelination, eversion of paranodal loops of myelin, substantial enlargement of the nodal gap, a complete loss of paranodal septate junctions, and mislocalization of Caspr1 and nodal sodium channels. The animals exhibit tremor and ataxia, and biochemical and mass spectrometric analysis indicates that while NF155 is transcribed and spliced normally, the NF155 protein is subsequently degraded, resulting in loss of the full length 155 kDa native protein. These findings reveal that this 9 bp region of NF155 in its unique third fibronectinIII-like domain is essential for stability of the protein.Copyright © 2021 Dutta and Fields.
In mice, early exposure to environmental odors affects social behaviors later in life. A signaling molecule, Semaphorin 7A (Sema7A), is induced in the odor-responding olfactory sensory neurons. Plexin C1 (PlxnC1), a receptor for Sema7A, is expressed in mitral/tufted cells, whose dendrite-localization is restricted to the first week after birth. Sema7A/PlxnC1 signaling promotes post-synaptic events and dendrite selection in mitral/tufted cells, resulting in glomerular enlargement that causes an increase in sensitivity to the experienced odor. Neonatal odor experience also induces positive responses to the imprinted odor. Knockout and rescue experiments indicate that oxytocin in neonates is responsible for imposing positive quality on imprinted memory. In the oxytocin knockout mice, the sensitivity to the imprinted odor increases, but positive responses cannot be promoted, indicating that Sema7A/PlxnC1 signaling and oxytocin separately function. These results give new insights into our understanding of olfactory imprinting during the neonatal critical period.© 2021, Inoue et al.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis plays a principal role in stress response regulation and has been implicated in the etiology of stress-related disorders. The HPA axis regulates the normal synthesis and release of glucocorticoids; dysregulation of the HPA axis causes abnormal responses to stress. FK506-binding protein 5 (FKBP5), a co-chaperone of heat shock protein 90 in the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) molecular complex, is a key GR sensitivity regulator. FKBP5 single nucleotide polymorphisms are associated with dysregulated HPA axis and increased risk of stress-related disorders, including posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression. In this study, we profiled the microRNAs (miRNAs) in the medial prefrontal cortex of Fkbp5 knockout (Fkbp5-/- ) mice and identified the target genes of differentially expressed miRNAs using sequence-based miRNA target prediction. Gene ontology analysis revealed that the differentially expressed miRNAs were involved in nervous system development, regulation of cell migration, and intracellular signal transduction. The validation of the expression of predicted target genes using quantitative polymerase chain reaction revealed that the expression of axon development-related genes, specifically actin-binding LIM protein 1 (Ablim1), lemur tyrosine kinase 2 (Lmtk2), kinesin family member 5c (Kif5c), neurofascin (Nfasc), and ephrin type-A receptor 4 (Epha4), was significantly decreased, while that of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf) was significantly increased in the brain of Fkbp5-/- mice. These results suggest that axonal development-related genes can serve as potential targets in future studies focused on understanding the pathophysiology of PTSD.© 2021 The Authors. The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) are the first liver cells to encounter waste macromolecules, pathogens, and toxins in blood. LSECs are highly specialized to mediate the clearance of these substances via endocytic scavenger receptors and are equipped with fenestrae that mediate the passage of macromolecules toward hepatocytes. Although some transcription factors (TFs) are known to play a role in LSEC specialization, information about the specialized LSEC signature and its transcriptional determinants remains incomplete.Based on a comparison of liver, heart, and brain endothelial cells (ECs), we established a 30-gene LSEC signature comprising both established and newly identified markers, including 7 genes encoding TFs. To evaluate the LSEC TF regulatory network, we artificially increased the expression of the 7 LSEC-specific TFs in human umbilical vein ECs. Although Zinc finger E-box-binding protein 2, homeobox B5, Cut-like homolog 2, and transcription factor EC (TCFEC) had limited contributions, musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma (C-MAF), GATA binding protein 4 (GATA4), and MEIS homeobox 2 (MEIS2) emerged as stronger inducers of LSEC marker expression. Furthermore, a combination of C-MAF, GATA4, and MEIS2 showed a synergistic effect on the increase of LSEC signature genes, including liver/lymph node-specific ICAM-3 grabbing non-integrin (L-SIGN) (or C-type lectin domain family member M (CLEC4M)), mannose receptor C-Type 1 (MRC1), legumain (LGMN), G protein-coupled receptor 182 (GPR182), Plexin C1 (PLXNC1), and solute carrier organic anion transporter family member 2A1 (SLCO2A1). Accordingly, L-SIGN, MRC1, pro-LGMN, GPR182, PLXNC1, and SLCO2A1 protein levels were elevated by this combined overexpression. Although receptor-mediated endocytosis was not significantly induced by the triple TF combination, it enhanced binding to E2, the hepatitis C virus host-binding protein. We conclude that C-MAF, GATA4, and MEIS2 are important transcriptional regulators of the unique LSEC fingerprint and LSEC interaction with viruses. Additional factors are however required to fully recapitulate the molecular, morphological, and functional LSEC fingerprint.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) are the first liver cells to encounter waste macromolecules, pathogens, and toxins in the blood and are highly specialized. Although some transcription factors are known to play a role in LSEC specialization, information about the specialized LSEC signature and its transcriptional determinants remains incomplete. Here, we show that Musculoaponeurotic Fibrosarcoma (C-MAF), GATA binding protein 4 (GATA4), and Meis homeobox 2 (MEIS2) are important transcriptional regulators of the unique LSEC signature and that they affect the interaction of LSECs with viruses.
Optimal size at birth dictates perinatal survival and long-term risk of developing common disorders such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The imprinted Grb10 gene encodes a signalling adaptor protein capable of inhibiting receptor tyrosine kinases, including the insulin receptor (Insr) and insulin-like growth factor type 1 receptor (Igf1r). Grb10 restricts fetal growth such that Grb10 knockout (KO) mice are at birth some 25-35% larger than wild type. Using a mouse genetic approach, we test the widely held assumption that Grb10 influences growth through interaction with Igf1r, which has a highly conserved growth promoting role.Should Grb10 interact with Igf1r to regulate growth Grb10:Igf1r double mutant mice should be indistinguishable from Igf1r KO single mutants, which are around half normal size at birth. Instead, Grb10:Igf1r double mutants were intermediate in size between Grb10 KO and Igf1r KO single mutants, indicating additive effects of the two signalling proteins having opposite actions in separate pathways. Some organs examined followed a similar pattern, though Grb10 KO neonates exhibited sparing of the brain and kidneys, whereas the influence of Igf1r extended to all organs. An interaction between Grb10 and Insr was similarly investigated. While there was no general evidence for a major interaction for fetal growth regulation, the liver was an exception. The liver in Grb10 KO mutants was disproportionately overgrown with evidence of excess lipid storage in hepatocytes, whereas Grb10:Insr double mutants were indistinguishable from Insr single mutants or wild types.Grb10 acts largely independently of Igf1r or Insr to control fetal growth and has a more variable influence on individual organs. Only the disproportionate overgrowth and excess lipid storage seen in the Grb10 KO neonatal liver can be explained through an interaction between Grb10 and the Insr. Our findings are important for understanding how positive and negative influences on fetal growth dictate size and tissue proportions at birth.© 2024. The Author(s).
What are the effects of plant-derived antioxidant compounds urolithin A (UA) and B (UB) on the growth and pathogenetic properties of an in vitro endometriosis model?Both urolithins showed inhibitory effects on cell behavior related to the development of endometriosis by differentially affecting growth, adhesion, motility, and invasion of endometriotic cells in vitro.Endometriosis is one of the most common benign gynecological diseases in women of reproductive age and is defined by the presence of endometrial tissue outside the uterine cavity. As current pharmacological therapies are associated with side effects interfering with fertility, we aimed at finding alternative therapeutics using natural compounds that can be administered for prolonged periods with a favorable side effects profile.In vitro cultures of primary endometriotic stromal cells from 6 patients subjected to laparoscopy for benign pathologies with histologically confirmed endometriosis; and immortalized endometrial stromal (St-T1b) and endometriotic epithelial cells (12Z) were utilized to assess the effects of UA and UB on endometriotic cell properties. Results were validated in three-dimensional (3D) in vitro co-culture spheroids of 12Z and primary endometriotic stroma cells of one patient, and organoids from 3 independent donors with endometriosis.The effects on cell growth were measured by non-radioactive colorimetric assay to measure cellular metabolic activity as an indicator of cell viability (MTT assay) and flow cytometric cell cycle assay on primary cultures, St-T1b, and 12Z. Apoptosis analyses, the impact on in vitro adhesion, migration, and invasion were evaluated in the cell lines. Moreover, Real-Time Quantitative Reverse Transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) assays were performed on primary cultures, St- T1b and 12Z to evaluate a plausible mechanistic contribution by factors related to proteolysis (matrix metalloproteinase 2, 3 and 9 -MMP2, MMP3, MMP9-, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases -TIMP-1-), cytoskeletal regulators (Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 -RAC1-, Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 2 -ROCK2-), and cell adhesion molecules (Syndecan 1 -SDC1-, Integrin alpha V-ITGAV-). Finally, the urolithins effects were evaluated on spheroids and organoids by formation, viability, and drug screen assays.40 µM UA and 20 µM UB produced a significant decrease in cell proliferation in the primary endometriotic cell cultures (P < 0.001 and P < 0.01, respectively) and in the St-T1b cell line (P < 0.001 and P < 0.05, respectively). In St-T1b, UA exhibited a mean half-maximum inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 39.88 µM, while UB exhibited a mean IC50 of 79.92 µM. Both 40 µM UA and 20 µM UB produced an increase in cells in the S phase of the cell cycle (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively). The same concentration of UA also increased the percentage of apoptotic ST-t1b cells (P < 0.05), while both urolithins decreased cell migration after 24 h (P < 0.001 both). Only the addition of 5 µM UB decreased the number of St-T1b adherent cells. TIMP-1 expression was upregulated in response to treating the cells with 40 µM UA (P < 0.05). Regarding the 12Z endometriotic cell line, only 40 µM UA decreased proliferation (P < 0.01); while both 40 µM UA and 20 µM UB produced an increase in cells in the G2/M phase (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). In this cell line, UA exhibited a mean IC50 of 40.46 µM, while UB exhibited a mean IC50 of 54.79 µM. UB decreased cell migration (P < 0.05), and decreased the number of adherent cells (P < 0.05). Both 40 µM UA and 20 µM UB significantly decreased the cellular invasion of these cells; and several genes were altered when treating the cells with 40 µM UA and 10 µM UB. The expression of MMP2 was downregulated by UA (P < 0.001), and expression of MMP3 (UA P < 0.001 and UB P < 0.05) and MMP9 (P < 0.05, both) were downregulated by both urolithins. Moreover, UA significantly downregulated ROCK2 (P < 0.05), whereas UB treatment was associated with RAC1 downregulation (P < 0.05). Finally, the matrix adhesion receptors and signaling (co)receptors SDC1 and ITGAV were downregulated upon treatment with either UA or UB (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively in both cases). Regarding the effects of urolithins on 3D models, we have seen that they significantly decrease the viability of endometriosis spheroids (80 µM UA and UB: P < 0.05 both) as well as affecting their area (40 µM UA: P < 0.05, and 80 µM UA: P < 0.01) and integrity (40 µM UA and UB: P < 0.05, 80 µM UA and UB: P < 0.01). On the other hand, UA and UB significantly inhibited organoid development/outgrowth (40 and 80 µM UA: P < 0.0001 both; 40 µM UB: P < ns-0.05-0.001, and 80 µM UB: P < 0.01-0.001-0.001), and all organoid lines show urolithins sensitivity resulting in decreasing viability (UA exhibited a mean IC50 of 33.93 µM, while UB exhibited a mean IC50 of 52.60 µM).N/A.This study was performed on in vitro endometriosis models.These in vitro results provide new insights into the pathogenetic pathways affected by these compounds and mark their use as a potential new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of endometriosis.This study was funded EU MSCA-RISE-2015 project MOMENDO (691058). The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Epithelial cells from diverse systems assemble apical microvilli to mediate biochemical and physical interactions with the external environment. Despite the central importance of these actin-based protrusions in epithelial physiology, how microvilli grow during differentiation remains poorly understood. Here, we report that an epithelial cell's potential for growing microvilli of normal size is limited by an adjacent actin-dependent process: clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Time-lapse imaging of individual microvillar growth events revealed tight spatial and temporal coupling to sites of apical clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Moreover, ultrastructural characterization of differentiating epithelia showed that most nascent microvilli are in contact with an endocytic pit. Finally, inhibition of the Arp2/3 complex, which drives actin polymerization on coated pits, significantly reduced the accumulation of new microvilli on the cell surface. We conclude that clathrin-mediated endocytosis and its associated Arp2/3-based actin nucleation activity control the timing and location of microvillar growth as well as the dimensions of the resulting protrusions.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The aging population has increased neurodegenerative diseases, yet current therapies mostly relieve symptoms rather than halt disease progression. Neural stem cells (NSCs) are crucial in nervous system development and repair, and research on their proliferation and differentiation regulation is vital. This study aimed to explore the effect of pedunculoside (PE) on primary NSCs and its mechanism. NSCs from pregnant rats (E13 - E14) were cultured and studied using CCK - 8, EDU incorporation, immunofluorescence, Western blot, and molecular docking. Results showed PE significantly promoted NSC proliferation at 10 μM and 20 μM dose - dependently. It also enhanced neuronal differentiation, with increased TUJ - 1 and decreased GFAP. Molecular docking and Western blot revealed PE binds to PI3K, activates the PI3K/AKT/GSK-3β pathway, and promotes protein phosphorylation. The PI3K inhibitor experiment confirmed PE's effect on NSC differentiation is mediated by this pathway. This study provides evidence for PE's role in NSC research and advances nervous system disease treatment research.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder that manifests from an N-terminal polyQ-expansion (>35) in the Huntingtin (HTT) gene leading to axonal degeneration and significant neuronal death. Despite evidence for a scaffolding role for HTT in membrane-related processes such as endocytosis, vesicle transport, and vesicle fusion, it remains unclear how polyQ-expansion alters membrane binding during these processes. Using quantitative Mass Spectrometry-based proteomics on HTT-containing light vesicle membranes isolated from healthy and HD iPSC-derived neurons, we found significant changes in the proteome and kinome of signal transduction, neuronal translation, trafficking, and axon guidance-related processes. Through a combination of in vitro kinase assays, Drosophila genetics, and pharmacological inhibitors, we identified that GSK3β and ERK1 phosphorylate HTT and that these events play distinct and opposing roles during HD with inhibition of GSK3β decreasing polyQ-mediated axonal transport defects and neuronal cell death, while inhibition of ERK enhancing these phenotypes. Together, this work proposes two novel pathways in which GSK3β phosphorylation events exacerbate and ERK phosphorylation events mitigate HD-dependent neuronal dysfunction highlighting a highly druggable pathway for targeted therapeutics using already available small molecules.© 2025. The Author(s).
Neuroinflammation plays a critical role in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is closely associated with obesity. In AD, the fat cell-secreted protein leptin crosses the blood-brain barrier and protects against nerve damage. However, obesity may induce leptin resistance, reduce leptin sensitivity, stimulate excessive glial cell activation, promote inflammatory factor production and exacerbate brain inflammation. Unfortunately, the mechanism of interaction among high-fat diets, obesity, neuroinflammation and neurodegenerative diseases remains unclear. We investigated the changes in neuroinflammation and leptin sensitivity in the brains of wild-type and high-fat-diet-fed APP/PS1 transgenic mice. We explored the effects of treadmill exercise for 12 weeks on the leptin/LepR/GSK-3β signalling pathway and memory. The body weights of the high-fat-diet-fed mice increased, and elevated levels of markers for leptin resistance, including suppressor of signalling 3 (SOCS3), protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) and proinflammatory factors such as tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), were observed. After 12 weeks of aerobic exercise, the leptin mRNA and protein levels increased, GSK-3β protein expression decreased and the mean fluorescence intensities of brain microglial (IBA-1) and neuron markers (NeuN) decreased, indicating that exercise may activate the leptin/LepR/GSK-3β signalling pathway, reducing glial cell activation and inflammation. Our study revealed that obesity induces and exacerbates the AD-related neuroinflammatory response. Aerobic exercise activates the leptin/LepR/GSK-3β pathway to relieve neuroinflammation and protect nerve cells, alleviating AD-associated memory loss. These promising outcomes could inform the development of nondrug-based aerobic exercise interventions for the treatment of AD and associated cognitive disorders.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Chromosome 22q11.2 deletion increases the risk of neuropsychiatric disorders like autism and schizophrenia. Disruption of large-scale functional connectivity in 22q11 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) has been widely reported, but the biological factors driving these changes remain unclear. We used a cross-species design to uncover the developmental trajectory and neural underpinnings of brain dysconnectivity in 22q11DS. In LgDel mice, a model for 22q11DS, we found age-specific patterns of brain dysconnectivity, with widespread fMRI hyperconnectivity in juvenile mice reconfiguring to hippocampal hypoconnectivity over puberty. These changes correlated with developmental alterations in dendritic spine density, and both were transiently normalized by GSK3β inhibition, suggesting a synaptic origin for this phenomenon. Notably, analogous pubertal hyperconnectivity-to-hypoconnectivity reconfiguration occurs in human 22q11DS, affecting cortical regions enriched for GSK3β-associated synaptic genes and autism-relevant transcripts. This dysconnectivity also predicts age-dependent social alterations in 22q11DS individuals. These results suggest that synaptic mechanisms underlie developmental brain dysconnectivity in 22q11DS.
Arp (actin-related protein) 2/3 complex nucleates actin filament branches on the sides of preexisting actin filaments during cell and organelle movements. We used computer simulations of mammalian Arp2/3 complex to address fundamental questions about the mechanism. Metadynamics and umbrella free energy sampling simulations of the pathway revealed that a clash between the D-loop of Arp2 and Arp3 produces an energy barrier of 20 ± 6 kcal/mol between the inactive splayed and active short-pitch conformations of Arp2/3 complex. Atomistic molecular dynamics simulations showed that binding the CA motif of the nucleation-promoting factor Neuronal Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome Protein (N-WASp) to inactive, splayed Arp2/3 complex shifts it toward the short-pitch active conformation and opens a binding site for an actin monomer on Arp3. Other simulations showed that this actin monomer stabilizes a transition state of Arp2/3 complex. These observations together with prior experimental work provide insights required to propose a physically grounded pathway for actin filament branch formation.
Status epilepticus (SE) is a serious neurological emergency that brings significant risks to health and life. microRNAs (miRNAs) and their targets show involvement in the pathophysiology of SE. We identified plasma exosomal miRNAs and analyzed the miRNA-messenger RNA (mRNA) regulatory pathways in SE mice. Mice were subjected to SE induction by kainic acid injection, and plasma exosome (Exo) extraction. Exo morphology, particle size distribution, and Exo-positive marker proteins were evaluated. Differentially-expressed miRNAs in Exos of SE mice were analyzed and verified by sequencing and RT-qPCR. Functional enrichment analysis on target genes and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network were performed. Hippocampal neuron cells HT-22 were cultured in vitro, and the targeted binding association between Exos-derived miR-205-5p and target genes was invalidated. There were 64 differentially-expressed miRNAs in plasma Exos of SE mice from healthy mice (32 up-regulated, 32 down-regulated). Among the top 10 differentially-expressed miRNAs, 5 were up-regulated, and 5 were down-regulated. The PPI network of collective target genes was developed, including 11 edges and 9 nodes. The genes related to nerve injury were phosphatase and tensin homolog (Pten), glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (Gsk3b), and leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (Lrrk2). SE mouse plasma Exos targeted Gsk3b, Lrrk2 and Pten in neuronal cells and reduced cell viability. Plasma exosomal miRNAs of SE mice were differentially expressed, and their target genes participated in the regulation of multiple pathways, mainly related to nervous system development. miR-205-5p could target Gsk3b, Lrrk2 and Pten, and suppress neuronal viability.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-025-00708-8.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Mitochondria are crucial for cellular metabolism and signalling. Mitochondrial activity is modulated by mitochondrial fission and fusion, which are required to properly balance metabolic functions, transfer material between mitochondria, and remove defective mitochondria. Mitochondrial fission occurs at mitochondria-endoplasmic reticulum (ER) contact sites, and requires the formation of actin filaments that drive mitochondrial constriction and the recruitment of the fission protein DRP1. The role of actin in mitochondrial fusion remains entirely unexplored. Here we show that preventing actin polymerisation on either mitochondria or the ER disrupts both fission and fusion. We show that fusion but not fission is dependent on Arp2/3, whereas both fission and fusion require INF2 formin-dependent actin polymerization. We also show that mitochondria-associated actin marks fusion sites prior to the fusion protein MFN2. Together, our work introduces a method for perturbing organelle-associated actin and demonstrates a previously unknown role for actin in mitochondrial fusion.© 2025. The Author(s).
We repurposed micropillar arrays to quantify spatiotemporal inter-adhesion communication. Following the observation that integrin adhesions formed around pillar tops we relied on the precise repetitive spatial control of the pillars to reliably monitor F-actin dynamics in mouse embryonic fibroblasts as a model for spatiotemporal adhesion-related intracellular signaling. Using correlation-based analyses, we revealed localized information flows propagating between adjacent pillars that were integrated over space and time to synchronize the adhesion dynamics within the entire cell. Probing the mechanical regulation, we discovered that stiffer pillars or partial actomyosin contractility inhibition enhances inter-adhesion F-actin synchronization, and that inhibition of Arp2/3, but not formin, reduces synchronization. Our results suggest that adhesions can communicate and highlight the potential of using micropillar arrays as a tool to measure spatiotemporal intracellular signaling.
In a recent study, Ziak et al. employed precise sparse labeling and spatiotemporally controlled genetic manipulations to uncover novel regulators of axon branching of layer 2/3 mouse callosal projection neurons. The authors elucidated a cell-autonomous signaling pathway wherein glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B) restricts interstitial axon branching by modulating microtubule (MT) tyrosination status.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cognitive dysfunction in early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves significant impairments in synaptic plasticity and dendritic spines integrity. Intriguingly, exercise interventions have demonstrated efficacy in enhancing cognitive function. However, the precise molecular mechanisms, particularly the upstream endogenous regulators (such as miRNAs) through which exercise mediates this synaptic improvement, remain unclear. Our findings indicated that 12 weeks of aerobic exercise effectively increased learning and memory, promoted amyloid beta (Aβ) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) clearance in early-stage AD. Furthermore, aerobic exercise markedly enhanced dendritic spines density of pyramidal neurons in cortical layers II/III and the hippocampal CA1 region, as well as the expression of synapse-associated proteins such as cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), synaptophysin (SYN), and postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95). Whole genome RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify miR-3473e, a target closely related to AD and also a response factor that serves as a key mediator of aerobic exercise benefits. Subsequent findings revealed that miR-3473e was overexpressed in the brains of APP/PS1 mice, whereas aerobic exercise led to a decrease in its expression. Moreover, aerobic exercise enhanced its downstream targets, EPH receptor B2 (EphB2) and solute carrier family 1 member 1 gene (Slc1a1) as well as increased downstream GluN1, GRIA1 and p-GluN2B/GluN2B protein expression levels. In summary, we demonstrate that aerobic exercise can improve synaptic plasticity, and these effects are mediated via suppression of miR-3473e and regulation EphB2-NMDA/AMPA receptor signaling pathway, underscoring the potential of aerobic exercise to enhance cognitive function in early-stage of AD.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Although most members of the Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (RhoGEF) family are found to be phosphorylated, how phosphorylation regulates RhoGEF function is poorly understood. Here we report the discovery of a mechanism of RhoGEF regulation by phosphorylation. We find that ARHGEF3 is phosphorylated in the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain in a protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent manner. This phosphorylation inhibits ARHGEF3 activation of RhoA and actin stress fiber formation in the cells, and it also disrupts ARHGEF3 binding to PI(3,5)P2 but not to PI(4,5)P2. Guided by molecular dynamics simulation, a mutation in the PH domain is identified to uncouple ARHGEF3 binding to the two lipids, which is used to rule out a role of PI(3,5)P2 in regulating GEF activity. Results of in vitro GEF assays suggest that PH domain phosphorylation diminishes ARHGEF3 catalytic activity, likely through an allosteric mechanism. Our findings reveal a previously unknown type of regulatory mechanism for the family of RhoGEFs.© 2025 The Author(s).
Obesity presents a significant global health burden, necessitating insights into the molecular drivers of adipogenesis and adipose tissue regulation.This study investigates the role of Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 3 (ARHGEF3) in adipocyte differentiation and hypertrophy, focusing on its influence on adipogenesis and body weight regulation under high-fat diet conditions.ARHGEF3-/- mice and littermate controls were subjected to a high-fat diet (HFD) and underwent comprehensive metabolic phenotyping. In vitro studies in C3H10T1/2 cells were conducted to assess ARHGEF3's role in adipogenesis, utilizing quantitative PCR, western blotting, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), immunoprecipitation (IP), immunostaining, and luciferase reporter assays.ARHGEF3 expression increased in white adipose tissue (WAT) of HFD-fed mice and during adipogenic differentiation in C3H10T1/2 cells. ARHGEF3-deficient mice exhibited reduced weight gain and adipocyte size, correlating with decreased RhoA expression and altered cytoskeletal dynamics. Additionally, ARHGEF3 facilitated yes-associated protein (YAP) nuclear translocation and its direct binding to the RhoA promoter, an effect reliant on ARHGEF3. ARHGEF3 also enhanced the transcriptional activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ), establishing a reciprocal activation loop to drive adipocyte differentiation and hypertrophy.ARHGEF3 emerges as a pivotal regulator of adipocyte dynamics by coordinating YAP-RhoA signaling and enhancing PPARγ activity. These findings offer novel therapeutic insights for addressing obesity and related metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (RGNEF) is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) mainly involved in regulating the activity of Rho-family GTPases. It is a bi-functional protein, acting both as a guanine exchange factor and as an RNA-binding protein. RGNEF is known to act as a destabilizing factor of neurofilament light chain RNA (NEFL) and it could potentially contribute to their sequestration in nuclear cytoplasmic inclusions. Most importantly, RGNEF inclusions in the spinal motor neurons of ALS patients have been shown to co-localize with inclusions of TDP-43, the major well-known RNA-binding protein aggregating in the brain and spinal cord of human patients. Therefore, it can be hypothesized that loss-of-function of both proteins following aggregation may contribute to motor neuron death/survival in ALS patients. To further characterize their relationship, we have compared the transcriptomic profiles of neuronal cells depleted of TDP-43 and RGNEF and show that these two factors predominantly act in an antagonistic manner when regulating the expression of axon guidance genes. From a mechanistic point of view, our experiments show that the effect of these genes on the processivity of long introns can explain their mode of action. Taken together, our results show that loss-of-function of factors co-aggregating with TDP-43 can potentially affect the expression of commonly regulated neuronal genes in a very significant manner, potentially acting as disease modifiers. This finding further highlights that neurodegenerative processes at the RNA level are the result of combinatorial interactions between different RNA-binding factors that can be co-aggregated in neuronal cells. A deeper understanding of these complex scenarios may lead to a better understanding of pathogenic mechanisms occurring in patients, where more than one specific protein may be aggregating in their neurons.© 2024 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
During cytokinesis, the cell membrane furrows inward along a cleavage plane. The positioning of the cleavage plane is critical to faithful cell division and is determined by the Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (RhoGEF)-mediated activation of the small guanosine triphosphatase RhoA and the conserved motor protein complex centralspindlin. Here, we explored whether and how centralspindlin mediates the positioning of RhoGEF. In dividing neuroblasts from Drosophila melanogaster, we observed that immediately before cleavage, first centralspindlin and then RhoGEF localized to the sites where cleavage subsequently initiated. Using in vitro assays with purified Drosophila proteins and stabilized microtubules, we found that centralspindlin directly transported RhoGEF as cargo along single microtubules and sequestered it at microtubule plus-ends for prolonged periods of time. In addition, the binding of RhoGEF to centralspindlin appeared to stimulate centralspindlin motor activity. Thus, the motor activity and microtubule association of centralspindlin can translocate RhoGEF to areas where microtubule plus-ends are abundant, such as at overlapping astral microtubules, to locally activate RhoA and accurately position the cleavage plane during cell division.
Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli are bacterial pathogens that colonize the gut and cause severe diarrhea in humans. Upon intimate attachment to the intestinal epithelium, these pathogens translocate via a type III secretion system virulent proteins, termed effectors, into the host cells. These effectors manipulate diverse host cell organelles and functions for the pathogen's benefit. However, the precise mechanisms underlying their activities are not fully understood despite intensive research. EspH, a critical effector protein, has been previously reported to disrupt the host cell actin cytoskeleton by suppressing RhoGTPase guanine exchange factors. However, native host proteins targeted by EspH to mediate these activities remained unknown. Here, we identified the active Bcr related (ABR), a protein previously characterized to possess dual Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor and GTPase activating protein (GAP) domains, as a native EspH interacting partner. These interactions are mediated by the effector protein's C-terminal 38 amino acid segment. The effector primarily targets the GAP domain of ABR to suppress Rac1 and Cdc42, host cell cytotoxicity, bacterial invasion, and filopodium formation at infection sites. Knockdown of ABR expression abolished the ability of EspH to suppress Rac1, Cdc42. Our studies unravel a novel mechanism by which host RhoGTPases are hijacked by bacterial effectors.
Recent advances in single-cell sequencing provide a unique opportunity to gain novel insights into the diversity, lineage, and functions of cell types constituting a tissue/organ. Here, we performed a single-nucleus study of the adult Drosophila renal system, consisting of Malpighian tubules and nephrocytes, which shares similarities with the mammalian kidney. We identified 11 distinct clusters representing renal stem cells, stellate cells, regionally specific principal cells, garland nephrocyte cells, and pericardial nephrocytes. Characterization of the transcription factors specific to each cluster identified fruitless (fru) as playing a role in stem cell regeneration and Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 (Hnf4) in regulating glycogen and triglyceride metabolism. In addition, we identified a number of genes, including Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor at 64C (RhoGEF64c), Frequenin 2 (Frq2), Prip, and CG1093 that are involved in regulating the unusual star shape of stellate cells. Importantly, the single-nucleus dataset allows visualization of the expression at the organ level of genes involved in ion transport and junctional permeability, providing a systems-level view of the organization and physiological roles of the tubules. Finally, a cross-species analysis allowed us to match the fly kidney cell types to mouse kidney cell types and planarian protonephridia, knowledge that will help the generation of kidney disease models. Altogether, our study provides a comprehensive resource for studying the fly kidney.
Homozygosity of the p.Arg204Trp variation in the Pleckstrin homology and RhoGEF domain containing G2 (PLEKHG2) gene, which encodes a Rho family-specific guanine nucleotide-exchange factor, is responsible for microcephaly with intellectual disability. However, the role of PLEKHG2 during neurodevelopment remains unknown. In this study, we analyzed mouse Plekhg2 function during cortical development, both in vitro and in vivo. The p.Arg200Trp variant in mouse (Plekhg2-RW), which corresponds to the p.Arg204Trp variant in humans, showed decreased guanine nucleotide-exchange activity for Rac1, Rac3, and Cdc42. Acute knockdown of Plekhg2 using in utero electroporation-mediated gene transfer did not affect the migration of excitatory neurons during corticogenesis. On the other hand, silencing Plekhg2 expression delayed dendritic arbor formation at postnatal day 7 (P7), perhaps because of impaired Rac/Cdc42 and p21-activated kinase 1 signaling pathways. This phenotype was rescued by expressing an RNAi-resistant version of wildtype Plekhg2, but not of Plekhg2-RW. Axon pathfinding was also impaired in vitro and in vivo in Plekhg2-deficient cortical neurons. At P14, knockdown of Plekhg2 was observed to cause defects in dendritic spine morphology formation. Collectively, these results strongly suggest that PLEKHG2 has essential roles in the maturation of axon, dendrites, and spines. Moreover, impairment of PLEKHG2 function is most likely to cause defects in neuronal functions that lead to neurodevelopmental disorders.
How septin architecture is remodeled from an hourglass to a double ring during cytokinesis in fungal and animal cells remains unknown. Here, we show that during the hourglass-to-double-ring transition in budding yeast, septins acquire a "zonal architecture" in which paired septin filaments that are organized along the mother-bud axis associate with circumferential single septin filaments, the Rho guanine-nucleotide-exchange factor (RhoGEF) Bud3, and the anillin-like protein Bud4 exclusively at the outer zones and with myosin-II filaments in the middle zone. Deletion of Bud3 or its Bud4-interacting domain, but not its RhoGEF domain, leads to a complete loss of the single filaments, whereas deletion of Bud4 or its Bud3-interacting domain destabilizes the transitional hourglass, especially at the mother side, with partial loss of both filament types. Deletion of Bud3 and Bud4 together further weakens the transitional structure and abolishes the double ring formation while causing no obvious defect in actomyosin ring constriction. This and further analyses suggest that Bud3 stabilizes the single filaments, whereas Bud4 strengthens the interaction between the paired and single filaments at the outer zones of the transitional hourglass, as well as in the double ring. This study reveals a striking zonal architecture for the transitional hourglass that pre-patterns two cytokinetic structures-a septin double ring and an actomyosin ring-and also defines the essential roles of a RhoGEF-anillin module in septin architectural remodeling during cytokinesis at the filament level.Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The Rho-guanine nucleotide exchange factor (RhoGEF) TRIO acts as a key regulator of neuronal migration, axonal outgrowth, axon guidance, and synaptogenesis by activating the GTPase RAC1 and modulating actin cytoskeleton remodeling. Pathogenic variants in TRIO are associated with neurodevelopmental diseases, including intellectual disability (ID) and autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Here, we report the largest international cohort of 24 individuals with confirmed pathogenic missense or nonsense variants in TRIO. The nonsense mutations are spread along the TRIO sequence, and affected individuals show variable neurodevelopmental phenotypes. In contrast, missense variants cluster into two mutational hotspots in the TRIO sequence, one in the seventh spectrin repeat and one in the RAC1-activating GEFD1. Although all individuals in this cohort present with developmental delay and a neuro-behavioral phenotype, individuals with a pathogenic variant in the seventh spectrin repeat have a more severe ID associated with macrocephaly than do most individuals with GEFD1 variants, who display milder ID and microcephaly. Functional studies show that the spectrin and GEFD1 variants cause a TRIO-mediated hyper- or hypo-activation of RAC1, respectively, and we observe a striking correlation between RAC1 activation levels and the head size of the affected individuals. In addition, truncations in TRIO GEFD1 in the vertebrate model X. tropicalis induce defects that are concordant with the human phenotype. This work demonstrates distinct clinical and molecular disorders clustering in the GEFD1 and seventh spectrin repeat domains and highlights the importance of tight control of TRIO-RAC1 signaling in neuronal development.Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Integration of extracellular signals by neurons is pivotal for brain development, plasticity, and repair. Axon guidance relies on receptor-ligand interactions crosstalking with extracellular matrix components. Semaphorin-5A (Sema5A) is a bifunctional guidance cue exerting attractive and inhibitory effects on neuronal growth through the interaction with heparan sulfate (HS) and chondroitin sulfate (CS) glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), respectively. Sema5A harbors seven thrombospondin type-1 repeats (TSR1-7) important for GAG binding, however the underlying molecular basis and functions in vivo remain enigmatic. Here we dissect the structural basis for Sema5A:GAG specificity and demonstrate the functional significance of this interaction in vivo. Using x-ray crystallography, we reveal a dimeric fold variation for TSR4 that accommodates GAG interactions. TSR4 co-crystal structures identify binding residues validated by site-directed mutagenesis. In vitro and cell-based assays uncover specific GAG epitopes necessary for TSR association. We demonstrate that HS-GAG binding is preferred over CS-GAG and mediates Sema5A oligomerization. In vivo, Sema5A:GAG interactions are necessary for Sema5A function and regulate Plexin-A2 dependent dentate progenitor cell migration. Our study rationalizes Sema5A associated developmental and neurological disorders and provides mechanistic insights into how multifaceted guidance functions of a single transmembrane cue are regulated by proteoglycans.© 2024. The Author(s).
Cytotoxic T cell (CTL) infiltration of the tumor carries the potential to limit cancer progression, but their exclusion by the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment hampers the efficiency of immunotherapy. Here, we show that expression of the axon guidance molecule Plexin-A4 (Plxna4) in CTLs, especially in effector/memory CD8+ T cells, is induced upon T-cell activation, sustained in the circulation, but reduced when entering the tumor bed. Therefore, we deleted Plxna4 and observed that Plxna4-deficient CTLs acquired improved homing capacity to the lymph nodes and to the tumor, as well as increased proliferation, both achieved through enhanced Rac1 activation. Mice with stromal or hematopoietic Plxna4 deletion exhibited enhanced CTL infiltration and impaired tumor growth. In a melanoma model, adoptive transfer of CTLs lacking Plxna4 prolonged survival and improved therapeutic outcome, which was even stronger when combined with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) treatment. PLXNA4 abundance in circulating CTLs was augmented in melanoma patients versus healthy volunteers but decreased after the first cycle of anti-PD-1, alone or in combination with anti-cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Associated Protein 4 (CTLA-4), in those patients showing complete or partial response to the treatment. Altogether, our data suggest that Plxna4 acts as a "checkpoint," negatively regulating CTL migration and proliferation through cell-autonomous mechanisms independent of the interaction with host-derived Plxna4 ligands, semaphorins. These findings pave the way toward Plxna4-centric immunotherapies and propose Plxna4 detection in circulating CTLs as a potential way to monitor the response to immune checkpoint blockade in patients with metastatic melanoma.©2021 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Amyloid-β (Aβ) and tau are major pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several studies have revealed that Aβ accelerates pathological tau transition and spreading during the disease progression, and that reducing tau can mitigate pathological features of AD. However, molecular links between Aβ and tau pathologies remain elusive. Here, we suggest a novel role for the plexin-A4 as an Aβ receptor that induces aggregated tau pathology. Plexin-A4, previously known as proteins involved in regulating axon guidance and synaptic plasticity, can bound to Aβ with co-receptor, neuropilin-2. Genetic downregulation of plexin-A4 in neurons was sufficient to prevent Aβ-induced activation of CDK5 and reduce tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation, even in the presence of Aβ. In an AD mouse model that manifests both Aβ and tau pathologies, genetic downregulation of plexin-A4 in the hippocampus reduced tau pathology and ameliorated spatial memory impairment. Collectively, these results indicate that the plexin-A4 is capable of mediating Aβ-induced tau pathology in AD pathogenesis.Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The semaphorin family is a well-characterized family of secreted or membrane-bound proteins that are involved in activity-independent neurodevelopmental processes, such as axon guidance, cell migration, and immune functions. Although semaphorins have recently been demonstrated to regulate activity-dependent synaptic scaling, their roles in Hebbian synaptic plasticity as well as learning and memory remain poorly understood. Here, using a rodent model, we found that an inhibitory avoidance task, a hippocampus-dependent contextual learning paradigm, increased secretion of semaphorin 3A in the hippocampus. Furthermore, the secreted semaphorin 3A in the hippocampus mediated contextual memory formation likely by driving AMPA receptors into hippocampal synapses via the neuropilin1-plexin A4-semaphorin receptor complex. This signaling process involves alteration of the phosphorylation status of collapsin response mediator protein 2, which has been characterized as a downstream molecule in semaphorin signaling. These findings implicate semaphorin family as a regulator of Hebbian synaptic plasticity and learning.© 2021 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience published by Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Diverse neuronal populations with distinct cellular morphologies coordinate the complex function of the nervous system. Establishment of distinct neuronal morphologies critically depends on signaling pathways that control axonal and dendritic development. The Sema3A-Nrp1/PlxnA4 signaling pathway promotes cortical neuron basal dendrite arborization but also repels axons. However, the downstream signaling components underlying these disparate functions of Sema3A signaling are unclear. Using the novel PlxnA4KRK-AAA knock-in male and female mice, generated by CRISPR/cas9, we show here that the KRK motif in the PlxnA4 cytoplasmic domain is required for Sema3A-mediated cortical neuron dendritic elaboration but is dispensable for inhibitory axon guidance. The RhoGEF FARP2, which binds to the KRK motif, shows identical functional specificity as the KRK motif in the PlxnA4 receptor. We find that Sema3A activates the small GTPase Rac1, and that Rac1 activity is required for dendrite elaboration but not axon growth cone collapse. This work identifies a novel Sema3A-Nrp1/PlxnA4/FARP2/Rac1 signaling pathway that specifically controls dendritic morphogenesis but is dispensable for repulsive guidance events. Overall, our results demonstrate that the divergent signaling output from multifunctional receptor complexes critically depends on distinct signaling motifs, highlighting the modular nature of guidance cue receptors and its potential to regulate diverse cellular responses.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The proper formation of axonal and dendritic morphologies is crucial for the precise wiring of the nervous system that ultimately leads to the generation of complex functions in an organism. The Semaphorin3A-Neuropilin1/Plexin-A4 signaling pathway has been shown to have multiple key roles in neurodevelopment, from axon repulsion to dendrite elaboration. This study demonstrates that three specific amino acids, the KRK motif within the Plexin-A4 receptor cytoplasmic domain, are required to coordinate the downstream signaling molecules to promote Sema3A-mediated cortical neuron dendritic elaboration, but not inhibitory axon guidance. Our results unravel a novel Semaphorin3A-Plexin-A4 downstream signaling pathway and shed light on how the disparate functions of axon guidance and dendritic morphogenesis are accomplished by the same extracellular ligand in vivo.Copyright © 2020 the authors.
Organs and tissues need to be vascularized during development. Similarly, vascularization is required to engineer thick tissues. How vessels are formed during organogenesis is not fully understood, and vascularization of engineered tissues remains a significant challenge.Here, we show that the extracellular matrix protein nephronectin is required for vascularization during zebrafish development as well as adult fin regeneration and is sufficient to promote mammalian vessel formation and maturation. Nephronectin a morphants and mutants exhibit diminished axial vein sprouting and posterior intersegmental vessel growth. Notably, the angiogenesis-associated integrins itgav and itgb3.1 are coexpressed with nephronectin a in the region of the caudal vein plexus and posterior somites; nephronectin binds to integrin alpha-V/integrin beta-3.1 (ITGAV/ITGB3.1), and itgav morphants phenocopy nephronectin a mutants. In addition, nephronectin a mutants showed decreased vessel maturation compared with wild-type siblings during caudal fin regeneration in adult zebrafish. Moreover, nephronectin promotes mammalian endothelial cell migration and tube formation in 2D and 3-dimensional in vitro tissue culture. Further, nephronectin enhances vascular endothelial growth factor-induced periaortic vascular capillary interconnectivity, vessel diameter, and vessel stability.Collectively, our results identify nephronectin as a proangiogenic factor during embryonic development, which can be used to improve the vascularization of engineered tissues.
Periostin, a multifunctional 90 kDa protein, plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of fibrosis across various tissues, including skeletal muscle. It operates within the transforming growth factor beta 1 (Tgf-β1) signalling pathway and is upregulated in fibrotic tissue. Alternative splicing of Periostin's C-terminal region leads to six protein-coding isoforms. This study aimed to elucidate the contribution of the isoforms containing the amino acids encoded by exon 17 (e17+ Periostin) to skeletal muscle fibrosis and investigate the therapeutic potential of manipulating exon 17 splicing. We identified distinct structural differences between e17+ Periostin isoforms, affecting their interaction with key fibrotic proteins, including Tgf-β1 and integrin alpha V. In vitro mouse fibroblast experimentation confirmed the TGF-β1-induced upregulation of e17+ Periostin mRNA, mitigated by an antisense approach that induces the skipping of exon 17 of the Postn gene. Subsequent in vivo studies in the D2.mdx mouse model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) demonstrated that our antisense treatment effectively reduced e17+ Periostin mRNA expression, which coincided with reduced full-length Periostin protein expression and collagen accumulation. The grip strength of the treated mice was rescued to the wild-type level. These results suggest a pivotal role of e17+ Periostin isoforms in the fibrotic pathology of skeletal muscle and highlight the potential of targeted exon skipping strategies as a promising therapeutic approach for mitigating fibrosis-associated complications.
In osteoarthritis (OA), the articular cartilage covering the articular surface of the bone wears out, exposing the subchondral bone, and the synovial membrane surrounding the joint becomes inflamed, causing pain and deformity. OA causes pain, stiffness, and swelling, and discomfort in the knee when climbing stairs is a typical symptom. Although drug development studies are conducted to treat these inflammatory joint diseases, it is difficult to find conclusive research results which could reduce inflammation and slow cartilage tear. The development of drugs to relieve inflammatory pain often utilizes inflammatory triggers. Interleukins, one of the proteins in the limelight as pro-inflammatory factors, are immune-system-stimulating factors that promote the body's fight against harmful factors such as bacteria. In this study, inflammation was induced in Chondrocytes cells (Chon-001 cells) with IL-1β and then treated with integrin αvβ3 to show anti-inflammatory and chondrogenesis effects. Integrin αvβ3 was not toxic to Chon-001 cells in any concentration groups treated with or without IL-1β. COX-2 and iNOS, which are major markers of inflammation, were significantly reduced by integrin αvβ3 treatment. Expressions of p-ERK, p-JNK, and p-p38 corresponding to the MAPKs signaling pathway and p-IκBα and p-p65 corresponding to the NF-κB signaling pathway were also decreased in a dose-dependent manner upon integrin αvβ3 treatment, indicating that inflammation was inhibited, whereas treatment with integrin αvβ3 significantly increased the expression of ALP, RUNX2, BMP2, BMP4, Aggrecan, SOX9, and COL2A1, suggesting that osteogenesis and chondrogenesis were induced. These results suggest that integrin αvβ3 in-duces an anti-inflammatory effect, osteogenesis, and chondrogenesis on IL-1β-induced Chon-001 cells.
Sertoli cells are highly polarized testicular cells that provide a nurturing environment for germ cell development and maturation during spermatogenesis. The class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PtdIns3K) plays core roles in macroautophagy in various cell types; however, its role in Sertoli cells remains unclear. Here, we generated a mouse line in which the gene encoding the catalytic subunit, Pik3c3, was specifically deleted in Sertoli cells (cKO) and found that after one round of normal spermatogenesis, the cKO mice quickly became infertile and showed disruption of Sertoli cell polarity and impaired spermiogenesis. Subsequent proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses enriched the F-actin cytoskeleton network involved in the disorganized Sertoli-cell structure in cKO testis which we identified a significant increase of the F-actin negative regulator SCIN (scinderin) and the reduced phosphorylation of HDAC6, an α-tubulin deacetylase. Our results further demonstrated that the accumulation of SCIN in cKO Sertoli cells caused the disorder and disassembly of the F-actin cytoskeleton, which was related to the failure of SCIN degradation through the autophagy-lysosome pathway. Additionally, we found that the phosphorylation of HDAC6 at site S59 by PIK3C3 was essential for its degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. As a result, the HDAC6 that accumulated in cKO Sertoli cells deacetylated SCIN at site K189 and led to a disorganized F-actin cytoskeleton. Taken together, our findings elucidate a new mechanism for PIK3C3 in maintaining the polarity of Sertoli cells, in which both its autophagy regulation or protein kinase activities are required for the stabilization of the actin cytoskeleton.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin, beta; AR: androgen receptor; ATG14: autophagy related 14; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1, autophagy related; BTB: blood-testis barrier; CASP3: caspase 3; CDC42: cell division cycle 42; CDH2: cadherin 2; CHX: cycloheximide; CTNNA1: catenin (cadherin associated protein), alpha 1; CYP11A1: cytochrome P450, family 11, subfamily A, polypeptide 1; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ES: ectoplasmic specialization; FITC: fluorescein isothiocyanate; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GCNA: germ cell nuclear acidic protein; GJA1: gap junction protein, alpha 1; H2AX: H2A.X variant histone; HDAC6: histone deacetylase 6; KIT: KIT proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MAP3K5: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; OCLN: occludin; PIK3C3: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PIK3R4: phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 4; PNA: arachis hypogaea lectin; RAC1: Rac family small GTPase 1; SCIN: scinderin; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SSC: spermatogonia stem cell; STK11: serine/threonine kinase 11; TJP1: tight junction protein 1; TubA: tubastatin A; TUBB3: tubulin beta 3 class III; TUNEL: TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling; UB: ubiquitin; UVRAG: UV radiation resistance associated gene; VIM: vimentin; WT1: WT1 transcription factor; ZBTB16: zinc finger and BTB domain containing 16.
In this paper, we investigate whether Wnt5A is associated with the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 and Hippo-YAP1/TAZ-TEAD pathways, implicated in epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) in epithelial ovarian cancer. We used 3D and 2D cultures of human epithelial ovarian cancer cell lines SKOV-3, OVCAR-3, CAOV-4, and different subtypes of human serous ovarian cancer compared to normal ovary specimens. Wnt5A showed a positive correlation with TAZ and TGFβ1 in high- and low-grade serous ovarian cancer specimens compared to borderline serous and normal ovaries. Silencing Wnt5A by siRNAs significantly decreased Smad2/3 activation and YAP1 expression and nuclear shuttling in ovarian cancer (OvCa) cells. Furthermore, Wnt5A was required for TGFβ1-induced cell migration and invasion. In addition, inhibition of YAP1 transcriptional activity by Verteporfin (VP) altered OvCa cell migration and invasion through decreased Wnt5A expression and inhibition of Smad2/3 activation, which was reverted in the presence of exogenous Wnt5A. We found that the activation of TGFβ1 and YAP1 nuclear shuttling was promoted by Wnt5A-induced integrin alpha v. Lastly, Wnt5A was implicated in activating human primary omental mesothelial cells and subsequent invasion of ovarian cancer cells. Together, we propose that Wnt5A could be a critical mediator of EMT-associated pathways.
CTSD/CathD/CATD (cathepsin D) is a lysosomal aspartic protease. A distinguishing characteristic of CTSD is its dual functions of promoting cell proliferation via secreting a pro-enzyme outside the cells as a ligand, and promoting apoptosis via the mature form of this enzyme inside cells; however, the regulation of its secretion, expression, and maturation is undetermined. Using the lepidopteran insect Helicoverpa armigera, a serious agricultural pest, as a model, we revealed the dual functions and regulatory mechanisms of CTSD secretion, expression, and maturation. Glycosylation of asparagine 233 (N233) determined pro-CTSD secretion. The steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) promoted CTSD expression. Macroautophagy/autophagy triggered CTSD maturation and localization inside midgut cells to activate CASP3 (caspase 3) and promote apoptosis. Pro-CTSD was expressed in the pupal epidermis and was secreted into the hemolymph to promote adult fat body endoreplication/endoreduplication, cell proliferation, and association. Our study revealed that the differential expression and autophagy-mediated maturation of CTSD in tissues determine its roles in apoptosis and cell proliferation, thereby determining the cell fates of tissues during lepidopteran metamorphosis.Abbreviations: 20E: 20-hydroxyecdysone; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB/β-actin: actin beta; AKT: protein kinase B; ATG1: autophagy-related 1; ATG4: autophagy-related 4; ATG5: autophagy-related 5; ATG7: autophagy-related 7; ATG14: autophagy-related 14; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CASP3: caspase 3; CQ: choroquine; CTSD: cathepsin D; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; DPBS: dulbecco's phosphate-buffered saline; DsRNA: double-stranded RNA; EcR: ecdysone receptor; EcRE: ecdysone response element; EdU: 5-ethynyl-2´-deoxyuridine; G-m-CTSD: glycosylated-mautre-CTSD; G-pro-CTSD: glycosylated-pro-CTSD; HaEpi: Helicoverpa armigera epidermal cell line; HE staining: hematoxylin and eosin staining; IgG: immunoglobin G; IM: imaginal midgut; JH: juvenile hormone; Kr-h1: krueppel homologous protein 1; LM: larval midgut; M6P: mannose-6-phosphate; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCD: programmed cell death; PNGase: peptide-N-glycosidase F; RFP: red fluorescent protein; RNAi: RNA interference; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SYX17: syntaxin 17; USP1: ultraspiracle isoform 1.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are important for global gene expression and contribute to numerous physiological events. Deacetylase Rpd3 in yeast and its conserved homolog HDAC1 in mammals oppositely regulate autophagy; however, how Rpd3/HDAC1 is regulated to mediate autophagy remains unclear. Here, we showed autophagy occurrence in silkworm (Bombyx mori) required BmRpd3, wherein steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) signaling regulated its protein level and nuclear localization negatively. Inhibition of MTOR led to dephosphorylation and nucleo-cytoplasmic translocation of BmRpd3/HsHDAC1. Besides, cholesterol, 20E, and 27-hydroxycholesterol could all induce massive dephosphorylation and cytoplasmic localization of BmRpd3/HsHDAC1, and thus autophagy by affecting MTORC1 activity. In addition, three phosphorylation sites (Ser392, Ser421, and Ser423) identified in BmRpd3 were conserved in HsHDAC1. Single or triple phosphorylation-site mutation attenuated the phosphorylation levels of BmRpd3/HsHDAC1, leading to their cytoplasmic localization and autophagy activation. In general, cholesterol derivatives, especially hydroxylated cholesterol, caused dephosphorylation and nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling of BmRpd3/HsHDAC1 through inhibition of MTOR signaling to facilitate autophagy in B. mori and mammals. These findings improve our understandings of BmRpd3/HsHDAC1-mediated autophagy induced by cholesterol derivatives and shed light on their potential as a therapeutic target for neurodegenerative diseases and autophagy-related studies.Abbreviations: 20E: 20-hydroxyecdysone; 27-OH: 27-hydroxycholesterol; ACTB: actin beta; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; Atg: autophagy-related; BmSqstm1: Bombyx sequestosome 1; CQ: chloroquine; HDAC: histone deacetylase; LMNB: Lamin B1; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TUBA1A: tubulin alpha 1a.
WD repeat domain 62 (WDR62) was identified as the second most causative gene of autosomal recessive primary microcephaly (MCPH) frequently associated structural abnormalities such as lissencephaly, polymicrogyria as well as hypoplasia of the corpus callosum, however, underlining mechanism behind these abnormality remains unknown. Here we show that either ablation of WDR62 in neural progenitor cells (NPCs) or post-mitotic neurons both impedes cortical neuronal radial migration in the developing brain. WDR62 modulates the transition from multipolar to bipolar states in migrating neurons and ensures the accurate formation of contralateral projections of callosal neurons. Our results further indicated that ASD-related mutations in WDR62 are associated with a reduced capacity for neuronal migration in the developing brain. Finally, we provide the molecular evidence that the levels of Reelin, a key modulator of neuronal migration and high confidence ASD candidate gene, were significantly reduced in the brains of Wdr62 deficient mice. These finding define critical roles for WDR62 in cortical neuronal radial migration and callosal projection which provides insights into the pathogenesis of WDR62 deficiency-related brain dysplasia.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes axon tearing and synapse degradation, resulting in multiple neurological dysfunctions and exacerbation of early neurodegeneration; the repair of axonal and synaptic structures is critical for restoring neuronal function. C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 5 (CCL5) shows many neuroprotective activities.A close-head weight-drop system was used to induce mild brain trauma in C57BL/6 (wild-type, WT) and CCL5 knockout (CCL5-KO) mice. The mNSS score, rotarod, beam walking, and sticker removal tests were used to assay neurological function after mTBI in different groups of mice. The restoration of motor and sensory functions was impaired in CCL5-KO mice after one month of injury, with swelling of axons and synapses from Golgi staining and reduced synaptic proteins-synaptophysin and PSD95. Administration of recombinant CCL5 (Pre-treatment: 300 pg/g once before injury; or post-treatment: 30 pg/g every 2 days, since 3 days after injury for 1 month) through intranasal delivery into mouse brain improved the motor and sensory neurological dysfunctions in CCL5-KO TBI mice.Proteomic analysis using LC-MS/MS identified that the "Nervous system development and function"-related proteins, including axonogenesis, synaptogenesis, and myelination signaling pathways, were reduced in injured cortex of CCL5-KO mice; both pre-treatment and post-treatment with CCL5 augmented those pathways. Immunostaining and western blot analysis confirmed axonogenesis and synaptogenesis related Semaphorin, Ephrin, p70S6/mTOR signaling, and myelination-related Neuregulin/ErbB and FGF/FAK signaling pathways were up-regulated in the cortical tissue by CCL5 after brain injury. We also noticed cortex redevelopment after long-term administration of CCL5 after brain injury with increased Reelin positive Cajal-Rerzius Cells and CXCR4 expression. CCL5 enhanced the growth of cone filopodia in a primary neuron culture system; blocking CCL5's receptor CCR5 by Maraviroc reduced the intensity of filopodia in growth cone and also CCL5 mediated mTOR and Rho signalling activation. Inhibiting mTOR and Rho signaling abolished CCL5 induced growth cone formation.CCL5 plays a critical role in starting the intrinsic neuronal regeneration system following TBI, which includes growth cone formation, axonogenesis and synaptogensis, remyelination, and the subsequent proper wiring of cortical circuits. Our study underscores the potential of CCL5 as a robust therapeutic stratagem in treating axonal injury and degeneration during the chronic phase after mild brain injury.© 2024. The Author(s).
Neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of early-onset pediatric disorders that affect the structure and/or function of the central or peripheral nervous system. Achieving a precise molecular diagnosis for NDDs may be challenging due to the diverse genetic underpinnings and clinical variability. In the current study, we investigated the underlying genetic cause(s) of NDDs in four unrelated Pakistani families. Using exome sequencing (ES) as a diagnostic approach, we identified disease-causing variants in established NDD-associated genes in all families, including one hitherto unreported variant in RELN and three recurrent variants in VPS13B, DEGS1, and SPG11. Overall, our study highlights the potential of ES as a tool for clinical diagnosis.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
We characterized the world's second case with ascertained extreme resilience to autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease (ADAD). Side-by-side comparisons of this male case and the previously reported female case with ADAD homozygote for the APOE3 Christchurch (APOECh) variant allowed us to discern common features. The male remained cognitively intact until 67 years of age despite carrying a PSEN1-E280A mutation. Like the APOECh carrier, he had extremely elevated amyloid plaque burden and limited entorhinal Tau tangle burden. He did not carry the APOECh variant but was heterozygous for a rare variant in RELN (H3447R, termed COLBOS after the Colombia-Boston biomarker research study), a ligand that like apolipoprotein E binds to the VLDLr and APOEr2 receptors. RELN-COLBOS is a gain-of-function variant showing stronger ability to activate its canonical protein target Dab1 and reduce human Tau phosphorylation in a knockin mouse. A genetic variant in a case protected from ADAD suggests a role for RELN signaling in resilience to dementia.© 2023. The Author(s).
The function of the cerebral cortex depends on various types of interneurons (cortical interneurons [cINs]) and their appropriate allocation to the cortical layers. Caudal ganglionic eminence-derived cINs (cGE-cINs) are enriched in superficial layers. Developmental mechanisms directing cGE-cINs toward superficial layers remain poorly understood. We examine how developmental and final positioning of cGE-cINs are influenced by the Cxcl12, Cxcr4, Ackr3 module, the chief attractant system guiding medial ganglionic eminence-derived cINs (mGE-cINs). We find that Cxcl12 attracts cGE-cINs through Cxcr4 and supports their layer-specific positioning in the developing cortex. This requires the prevention of excessive Cxcr4 stimulation by Ackr3-mediated Cxcl12 sequestration. Postnatally, Ackr3 confines Cxcl12 action to the marginal zone. Unlike mGE-cINs, cGE-cINs continue to express Cxcr4 at early postnatal stages, which permits cGE-cINs to become positioned in the forming layer 1. Thus, chemoattraction by Cxcl12 guides cGE-cINs and holds them in superficial cortical layers.Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: We aimed to make an integrated analysis of published transcriptome and DNA methylation dataset to ascertain the key differentially methylated and differentially expressed genes for Alzherimer's disease (AD). Methods: Two gene expression microarrays and 1 gene methylation microarray were downloaded for identification of differentially expressed genes and differentially methylated genes. Then, we used various biological information databases to annotate the functions of the differentially-methylated/expressed genes, and screen out key genes and important signaling pathways. Finally, we validate the differentially-methylated/expressed genes in the additional online datasets and in blood from AD patients.Results: A total of 8 hub hypomethylated-high expression genes were obtained, including Rac family small GTPase 2, FGR proto-oncogene, Src family tyrosine kinase, LYN proto-oncogene, Src family tyrosine kinase, protein kinase C delta, myosin IF, integrin subunit alpha 5, semaphorin 4D, and growth arrest specific protein 7. Some enriched signaling pathways of hypomethylated-high expression genes were identified, including regulation of actin cytoskeleton, chemokine signaling pathway, Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis, and axon guidance. Conclusion: Differentially-methylated/expressed genes are likely to be associated with AD.
Reelin, a large extracellular protein, plays several critical roles in brain development and function. It is encoded by RELN, first identified as the gene disrupted in the reeler mouse, a classic neurological mutant exhibiting ataxia, tremors and a 'reeling' gait. In humans, biallelic variants in RELN have been associated with a recessive lissencephaly variant with cerebellar hypoplasia, which matches well with the homozygous mouse mutant that has abnormal cortical structure, small hippocampi and severe cerebellar hypoplasia. Despite the large size of the gene, only 11 individuals with RELN-related lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia from six families have previously been reported. Heterozygous carriers in these families were briefly reported as unaffected, although putative loss-of-function variants are practically absent in the population (probability of loss of function intolerance = 1). Here we present data on seven individuals from four families with biallelic and 13 individuals from seven families with monoallelic (heterozygous) variants of RELN and frontotemporal or temporal-predominant lissencephaly variant. Some individuals with monoallelic variants have moderate frontotemporal lissencephaly, but with normal cerebellar structure and intellectual disability with severe behavioural dysfunction. However, one adult had abnormal MRI with normal intelligence and neurological profile. Thorough literature analysis supports a causal role for monoallelic RELN variants in four seemingly distinct phenotypes including frontotemporal lissencephaly, epilepsy, autism and probably schizophrenia. Notably, we observed a significantly higher proportion of loss-of-function variants in the biallelic compared to the monoallelic cohort, where the variant spectrum included missense and splice-site variants. We assessed the impact of two canonical splice-site variants observed as biallelic or monoallelic variants in individuals with moderately affected or normal cerebellum and demonstrated exon skipping causing in-frame loss of 46 or 52 amino acids in the central RELN domain. Previously reported functional studies demonstrated severe reduction in overall RELN secretion caused by heterozygous missense variants p.Cys539Arg and p.Arg3207Cys associated with lissencephaly suggesting a dominant-negative effect. We conclude that biallelic variants resulting in complete absence of RELN expression are associated with a consistent and severe phenotype that includes cerebellar hypoplasia. However, reduced expression of RELN remains sufficient to maintain nearly normal cerebellar structure. Monoallelic variants are associated with incomplete penetrance and variable expressivity even within the same family and may have dominant-negative effects. Reduced RELN secretion in heterozygous individuals affects only cortical structure whereas the cerebellum remains intact. Our data expand the spectrum of RELN-related neurodevelopmental disorders ranging from lethal brain malformations to adult phenotypes with normal brain imaging.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Barrier epithelia depend upon resident stem cells for homeostasis, defense, and repair. Epithelial stem cells of small and large intestines (ISCs) respond to their local microenvironments (niches) to fulfill a continuous demand for tissue turnover. The complexity of these niches and underlying communication pathways are not fully known. Here, we report a lymphatic network at the intestinal crypt base that intimately associates with ISCs. Employing in vivo loss of function and lymphatic:organoid cocultures, we show that crypt lymphatics maintain ISCs and inhibit their precocious differentiation. Pairing single-cell and spatial transcriptomics, we apply BayesPrism to deconvolve expression within spatial features and develop SpaceFold to robustly map the niche at high resolution, exposing lymphatics as a central signaling hub for the crypt in general and ISCs in particular. We identify WNT-signaling factors (WNT2, R-SPONDIN-3) and a hitherto unappreciated extracellular matrix protein, REELIN, as crypt lymphatic signals that directly govern the regenerative potential of ISCs.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
ASD-associated genes are enriched for synaptic proteins and epigenetic regulators. How those chromatin modulators establish ASD traits have remained unknown. We find haploinsufficiency of Ash1l causally induces anxiety and autistic-like behavior, including repetitive behavior, and alters social behavior. Specific depletion of Ash1l in forebrain induces similar ASD-associated behavioral defects. While the learning ability remains intact, the discrimination ability of Ash1l mutant mice is reduced. Mechanistically, deletion of Ash1l in neurons induces excessive synapses due to the synapse pruning deficits, especially during the post-learning period. Dysregulation of synaptic genes is detected in Ash1l mutant brain. Specifically, Eph receptor A7 is downregulated in Ash1l+/- mice through accumulating EZH2-mediated H3K27me3 in its gene body. Importantly, increasing activation of EphA7 in Ash1l+/- mice by supplying its ligand, ephrin-A5, strongly promotes synapse pruning and rescues discrimination deficits. Our results suggest that Ash1l haploinsufficiency is a highly penetrant risk factor for ASD, resulting from synapse pruning deficits.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) is a ubiquitously expressed enzyme that regulates DNA damage repair, cell death, inflammation, and transcription. PARP1 functions by adding ADP-ribose polymers (PAR) to proteins including itself, using NAD+ as a donor. This post-translational modification known as PARylation results in changes in the activity of PARP1 and its substrate proteins and has been linked to the pathogenesis of various neurological diseases. PARP1 KO mice display schizophrenia-like behaviors, have impaired memory formation, and have defects in neuronal proliferation and survival, while mutations in genes that affect PARylation have been associated with intellectual disability, psychosis, neurodegeneration, and stroke in humans. Yet, the roles of PARP1 in brain development have not been extensively studied. We now find that loss of PARP1 leads to defects in brain development and increased neuronal density at birth. We further demonstrate that PARP1 loss increases the expression levels of genes associated with neuronal migration and adhesion in the E15.5 cerebral cortex, including Reln. This correlates with an increased number of Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells in vivo and in cultures of embryonic neural progenitor cells (NPCs) derived from the PARP1 KO cortex. Furthermore, PARP1 loss leads to increased NPC adhesion to N-cadherin, like that induced by experimental exposure to Reelin. Taken together, these results uncover a novel role for PARP1 in brain development, i.e., regulation of CR cells, neuronal density, and cell adhesion.Copyright © 2021 Nelson, Hoff, Zeese and Corfas.
Super-resolution microscopy holds great promise for detailed structural analysis of proteins, yet its application in the investigations of protein structures in situ remains sparse. Clathrin-coated pit-mediated endocytosis (CME) plays a key role in human cancer. This study aimed to discover whether there are structural changes in clathrin pits in cancer. Immunofluorescence combined with super-resolution structured illumination microscopy (SR-SIM) on normal and cancerous prostate tissue was used to reveal novel details of clathrin structure and biology. Clathrin (heavy-chain) plaques and pits, expression of adaptor protein 2 (a clathrin adaptor protein), and epidermal growth factor receptor (a receptor target for CME) at nanometer scale in human tissue were observed in situ with immunofluorescence-SR-SIM. The size of the clathrin pits in high-grade cancer was greater compared with that in low-grade or normal prostate tissue. These results demonstrate that SR-SIM can be used to identify protein structures at high resolution in clinical tissue sections and there is an increased cargo capacity due to the increase in the size of clathrin pits as a mechanism that facilitates aggressiveness of cancer. These results shed new light on the pathology of cancer and the role CME via clathrin may play in carcinogenesis.Copyright © 2025 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
An unknown 61 kDa protein is phosphorylated by abscisic acid (ABA)-activated protein kinase in response to ABA and binds to 14-3-3 protein in a phosphorylation-dependent manner in guard-cell protoplasts (GCPs) from Vicia faba. Subsequently, ABA-dependent phosphorylated proteins were identified as basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, named ABA-responsive kinase substrates (AKSs) in GCPs from Arabidopsis thaliana. However, whether the 61 kDa protein in Vicia GCPs is an AKS is unclear. We performed immunoprecipitation of ABA-treated Vicia GCPs using anti-14-3-3 protein antibodies and identified several AKS isoforms in V. faba (VfAKSs) by mass spectrometry. The 61 kDa protein was identified as VfAKS1. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that VfAKSs are phosphorylated at Ser residues, which are important for 14-3-3 protein binding and monomerisation, in response to ABA in GCPs. Orthologs of AtABCG40, an ABA importer in guard cells, and CHC1, a clathrin heavy chain and a regulator of stomatal movement, also co-immunoprecipitated with 14-3-3 protein from guard cells.Copyright © 2021 Hayashi, Takahashi, Fukatsu, Tada, Takahashi, Kuwata, Suzuki and Kinoshita.
Intracortical circuits, including long-range callosal projections, are crucial for information processing. The development of neuronal connectivity in the cerebral cortex is contingent on ordered emergence of neuronal classes followed by the formation of class-specific axon projections. However, the genetic determinants of intracortical axon targeting are still unclear. We find that the transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor 2-c (Mef2c) directs the development of somatosensory cortical (S1) Layer 4 and 5 identity in murine postmitotic pyramidal neurons during embryogenesis. During postnatal development, Mef2c expression shifts to Layer 2/3 callosal projection neurons (L2/3 CPNs). At this later developmental stage, we identify a novel function for Mef2c in contralateral homotopic domain targeting by S1-L2/3 CPN axons. We employ functional manipulation of EphrinA-EphA signaling in Mef2c mutant CPNs and demonstrate that Mef2c represses EphA6 to desensitize S1-L2/3 CPN axons to EphrinA5 repulsion at their contralateral targets. Our work uncovers dual roles for Mef2c in cortical development: regulation of laminar subtype specification during embryogenesis and axon targeting in postnatal callosal neurons.Copyright © 2025 the authors.
By exposing genes associated with disease, genomic studies provide hundreds of starting points that should lead to druggable processes. However, our ability to systematically translate these genomic findings into biological pathways remains limited. Here, we combine rapid loss-of-function mutagenesis of Alzheimer's risk genes and behavioural pharmacology in zebrafish to predict disrupted processes and candidate therapeutics. FramebyFrame, our expanded package for the analysis of larval behaviours, revealed that decreased night-time sleep was common to F0 knockouts of all four late-onset Alzheimer's risk genes tested. We developed an online tool, ZOLTAR, which compares any behavioural fingerprint to a library of fingerprints from larvae treated with 3677 compounds. ZOLTAR successfully predicted that sorl1 mutants have disrupted serotonin signalling and identified betamethasone as a drug which normalises the excessive day-time sleep of presenilin-2 knockout larvae with minimal side effects. Predictive behavioural pharmacology offers a general framework to rapidly link disease-associated genes to druggable pathways.© 2024, Kroll et al.
Signal transduction downstream of axon guidance molecules is essential for steering developing axons. Second messengers including cAMP are key molecules shared by a multitude of signaling pathways and are required for a wide range of cellular processes including axon pathfinding. Yet, how these signaling molecules achieve specificity for each of their downstream pathways remains elusive. Subcellular compartmentation has emerged as a flexible strategy to reach such a specificity. Here, we show that point contact-restricted cAMP signals control ephrin-A5-evoked axon repulsion in vitro by modulating focal adhesion kinase (FAK; also known as PTK2) phosphorylation and the assembly and disassembly rate of point contacts. Consistent with this, preventing point contact-specific cAMP signals in developing retinal ganglion cells in vivo alters the refinement of their terminal axonal arbor in the brain. Altogether, our study identifies point contacts as a compartment containing a local cAMP signal required for ephrin-A5-dependent axon guidance and highlights the crucial role of such subcellularly restricted second messenger signals in the wiring of neuronal circuits.© 2025. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Breast cancer is frequently the most diagnosed female cancer in the world. The experimental studies on cancer seldom focus on the relationship between the central nervous system and cancer. Despite extensive research into the treatment of breast cancer, chemotherapy resistance is an important issue limiting the efficacy of treatment. Novel biomarkers to predict prognosis or sensitivity to chemotherapy are urgently needed. This study examined nervous-system-related genes. The profiling of differentially expressed genes indicated that high-LET radiation, such as that emitted by radon progeny, in the presence of estrogen, induced a cascade of events indicative of tumorigenicity in human breast epithelial cells. Bioinformatic tools allowed us to analyze the genes involved in breast cancer and associated with the nervous system. The results indicated that the gene expression of the Ephrin A1 gene (EFNA1), the roundabout guidance receptor 1 (ROBO1), and the kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6) was greater in T2 and A5 than in the A3 cell line; the LIM domain kinase 2 gene (LIMK2) was greater in T2 than A3 and A5; the kallikrein-related peptidase 7 (KLK7), the neuroligin 4 X-linked gene (NLGN4X), and myelin basic protein (MBP) were greater than A3 only in T2; and the neural precursor cell expressed, developmentally down-regulated 9 gene (NEDD9) was greater in A5 than in the A3 and E cell lines. Concerning the correlation, it was found a positive correlation between ESR1 and EFNA1 in BRCA-LumA patients; with ROBO1 in BRCA-Basal patients, but this correlation was negative with the kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6) in BRCA-LumA and -LumB, as well as with LIMK2 and ROBO1 in all BRCA. It was also positive with neuroligin 4 X-linked (NLGN4X) in BRCA-Her2 and BRCA-LumB, and with MBP in BRCA-LumA and -LumB, but negative with KLK7 in all BRCA and BRCA-LumA and NEDD9 in BRCA-Her2. The differential gene expression levels between the tumor and adjacent tissue indicated that the ROBO1, KLK6, LIMK2, KLK7, NLGN4X, MBP, and NEDD9 gene expression levels were higher in normal tissues than in tumors; however, EFNA1 was higher in the tumor than the normal ones. EFNA1, LIMK2, ROBO1, KLK6, KLK7, and MBP gene expression had a negative ER status, whereas NEDD9 and NLGN4X were not significant concerning ER status. In conclusion, important markers have been analyzed concerning genes related to the nervous system, opening up a new avenue of studies in breast cancer therapy.
During the past two decades, induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have been widely used to study human neural development and disease. Especially in the field of Alzheimer's disease (AD), remarkable effort has been put into investigating molecular mechanisms behind this disease. Then, with the advent of 3D neuronal cultures and cerebral organoids (COs), several studies have demonstrated that this model can adequately mimic familial and sporadic AD. Therefore, we created an AD-CO model using iPSCs derived from patients with familial AD forms and explored early events and the progression of AD pathogenesis. Our study demonstrated that COs derived from three AD-iPSC lines with PSEN1(A246E) or PSEN2(N141I) mutations developed the AD-specific markers in vitro, yet they also uncover tissue patterning defects and altered development. These findings are complemented by single-cell sequencing data confirming this observation and uncovering that neurons in AD-COs likely differentiate prematurely.Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The secretory properties of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) play predominant roles in shaping a pro-metastatic tumor microenvironment. The present study demonstrated that SLIT2, an axon guidance protein, produced by CAFs and promoted gastric cancer (GC) metastasis in two gastric cancer cell lines (AGS and MKN45) by binding to roundabout guidance receptor 1 (ROBO1). Mass-spectrometry analysis revealed that ROBO1 could interact with NEK9, a serine/threonine kinase. And their mutual binding activities were further enhanced by SLIT2. Domain analysis revealed the kinase domain of NEK9 was critical in its interaction with the intracellular domain (ICD) of ROBO1, and it also directly phosphorylated tripartite motif containing 28 (TRIM28) and cortactin (CTTN) in AGS and MKN45 cells. TRIM28 function as a transcriptional elongation factor, which directly facilitate CTTN activation. In addition, Bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation identified transcriptional regulation of STAT3 and NF-κB p100 by TRIM28, and a synergetic transcription of CTTN by STAT3 and NF-κB p100 was also observed in AGS and MKN45. Therefore, CAF-derived SLIT2 increased the expression and phosphorylation levels of CTTN, which induced cytoskeletal reorganization and GC cells metastasis. A simultaneous increase in the expression levels of NEK9, TRIM28 and CTTN was found in metastatic GC lesions compared with paired non-cancerous tissues and primary cancer lesions via IHC and Multiplex IHC. The analysis of the data from a cohort of patients with GC revealed that increased levels of NEK9, TRIM28 and CTTN were associated with a decreased overall survival rate. On the whole, these findings revealed the connections of CAFs and cancer cells through SLIT2/ROBO1 and inflammatory signaling, and the key molecules involved in this process may serve as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for GC.© 2023. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 36464176 is a review article
Congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) represent the most common cause of chronic kidney failure in children. Despite growing knowledge of the genetic causes of CAKUT, the majority of cases remain etiologically unsolved. Genetic alterations in roundabout guidance receptor 1 (ROBO1) have been associated with neuronal and cardiac developmental defects in living individuals. Although Slit-Robo signaling is pivotal for kidney development, diagnostic ROBO1 variants have not been reported in viable CAKUT to date. By next-generation-sequencing methods, we identified six unrelated individuals and two non-viable fetuses with biallelic truncating or combined missense and truncating variants in ROBO1. Kidney and genitourinary manifestation included unilateral or bilateral kidney agenesis, vesicoureteral junction obstruction, vesicoureteral reflux, posterior urethral valve, genital malformation, and increased kidney echogenicity. Further clinical characteristics were remarkably heterogeneous, including neurodevelopmental defects, intellectual impairment, cerebral malformations, eye anomalies, and cardiac defects. By in silico analysis, we determined the functional significance of identified missense variants and observed absence of kidney ROBO1 expression in both human and murine mutant tissues. While its expression in multiple tissues may explain heterogeneous organ involvement, variability of the kidney disease suggests gene dosage effects due to a combination of null alleles with mild hypomorphic alleles. Thus, comprehensive genetic analysis in CAKUT should include ROBO1 as a new cause of recessively inherited disease. Hence, in patients with already established ROBO1-associated cardiac or neuronal disorders, screening for kidney involvement is indicated.Copyright © 2022 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The triple-negative subtype of breast cancer is particularly challenging to treat due to its aggressiveness with a high risk of brain metastasis, and the lack of effective targeted therapies. Tubulin beta 2B class IIb (TUBB2B), a β-tubulin isoform regulating axon guidance during embryonic development, was found to be overexpressed in various types of cancers including triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). However, its functional roles in breast cancer or metastasis remain unclear.To identify TUBB2B as a novel molecular target in TNBC, we performed bioinformatics analysis to assess the association of TUBB2B expression and survival of patients. RNAscope in situ hybridization was used to examine TUBB2B expression in clinical breast tumor samples. The effect of TUBB2B knockdown on TNBC growth and brain metastasis colonization was evaluated by in vitro and in vivo assays. Mass spectrometry (MS) and biochemical experiments were performed to explore the underlying mechanisms. Preclinical efficacy of targeting TUBB2B was determined in xenograft studies using the siRNA-gold nanoparticle (siRNA-AuNP) approach.TUBB2B, but not other β-tubulin isoforms, is frequently overexpressed in TNBC primary tumors as well as brain metastases. We also find that upregulation of TUBB2B is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer patients. Silencing TUBB2B induces tumor cell death and inhibits the outgrowth of brain metastasis. Mechanistically, we identify eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 1 (eEF1A1) as a novel interacting partner of TUBB2B, revealing a previously unexplored role of TUBB2B in translational regulation. In line with its neural-related functions, TUBB2B overexpression in TNBC cells activates astrocytes, which in turn upregulate TUBB2B in tumor cells. These findings suggest a feed-forward interaction between TUBB2B in TNBC cells and astrocytes that promotes brain metastatic colonization. Furthermore, we demonstrate the potent inhibition of TNBC xenograft growth as well as brain metastatic colonization using TUBB2B siRNA-AuNP treatment, indicating potential clinical applications of targeting TUBB2B for TNBC.TUBB2B is a novel TNBC gene that plays a key role in promoting tumor cell survival and brain metastatic colonization, and can be targeted by siRNA-AuNPs as a treatment strategy.© 2025. The Author(s).
As a highly regulated and dynamically balanced intracellular degradation mechanism, macroautophagy/autophagy plays an essential housekeeping role in different successive stages of skin wound healing; from the homeostasis and inflammatory stages to the proliferative and remodeling stages. Under both progressive and defective skin wound healing conditions, autophagy operates at different levels with a precise extent of activity, at the interface of inflammation, stress signaling and cell metabolism through a complex spatiotemporal cascade of molecular and cellular events. Depending on the wound healing conditions autophagic activity is fine-tuned and differentially modulated at each stage of skin wound healing in order to cope with stage-specific requirements. Here, we postulate that under favorable conditions autophagy may act as the key modulator of skin wound healing by making chronic wounds acute. Enhancing autophagy through the topical application of pro-autophagy biologics in an appropriate hydrating vehicle/moisturizing base such as hydrogels, onto a chronic skin wound may provide moisture and immune modulation, thus contributing to rapid and efficient skin wound healing. A moist environment is more conducive to skin wound healing as it helps to not only accelerate cell proliferation and migration, and extracellular matrix reorganization, but also promotes autophagy and reduces the incidence of inflammation.Abbreviation: AKT: AKT serine/threonine protein kinase; ECM: extracellular matrix; FN1: fibronectin 1; LAM: laminin; MMPs: matrix metallopeptidases; MMP2: matrix metallopeptidase 2; MRSA: methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor.
Salidroside (SAL) is a natural component derived from Rhodiola rosea and is well known for its wide range of biological activities such as its anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative properties. However, its effects and mechanisms of action related to asthma have not been well explored yet. Recent studies have found that changes in host metabolism are closely related to the progression of asthma. Many natural components can ameliorate asthma by affecting host metabolism. The use of untargeted metabolomics can allow for a better understanding of the metabolic regulatory mechanisms of herbs on asthma. This study aimed to demonstrate the anti-asthmatic effects and metabolic regulatory mechanisms of SAL. In this study, the therapeutic effects of SAL on asthmatic mice were tested at first. Secondly, the effects of SAL on the airway inflammatory reaction, oxidative stress, and airway remodeling were investigated. Finally, untargeted metabolomics analysis was used to explore the influence of SAL on lung metabolites. The results showed that SAL had a significant therapeutic effect on asthmatic model mice. Moreover, SAL treatment lowered interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, and IL-13 levels but elevated interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and IL-10 levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). Additionally, it also increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities and decreased methane dicarboxylic aldehyde (MDA) levels in the lungs. Besides, SAL-treated mice showed decreased expression of smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP2), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) in the lung. Untargeted metabolomics analysis showed 31 metabolites in the lungs that were influenced by SAL. These metabolites were related to pyrimidine metabolism, steroid hormone biosynthesis, and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. In conclusion, SAL treatment can reduce the inflammatory response, oxidative stress, and airway remodeling in asthmatic model mice. The mechanism of SAL in the treatment of asthma may be related to the regulation of pyrimidine metabolism, steroid hormone biosynthesis, and the TCA cycle. Further studies can be carried out using targeted metabolomics and in vitro models to deeply elucidate the anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative mechanisms of SAL on asthma based on regulating metabolism.
Skipped: PubMed ID 33794741 is a review article
A mammalian embryo experiences the first cell segregation at the blastocyst stage, in which cells giving form to the embryo are sorted into two lineages; trophectoderm (TE) and inner cell mass (ICM). This first cell segregation process is governed by cell position-dependent Hippo signaling, which is a phosphorylation cascade determining whether Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1), one of the key components of the Hippo signaling pathway, localizes within the nucleus or cytoplasm. YAP1 localization determines the transcriptional on/off switch of a key gene, Cdx2, required for TE differentiation. However, the control mechanisms involved in YAP1 nucleocytoplasmic shuttling post blastocyst formation remain unknown. This study focused on the mechanisms involved in YAP1 release from TE nuclei after blastocoel contraction in bovine blastocysts. The blastocysts contracted by blastocoel fluid aspiration showed that the YAP1 translocation from nucleus to cytoplasm in the TE cells was concomitant with the protruded actin cytoskeleton. This YAP1 release from TE nuclei in the contracted blastocysts was prevented by actin disruption and stabilization. In contrast, Y27632, which is a potent inhibitor of Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1/2 (ROCK) activity, was found to promote YAP1 nuclear localization in the TE cells of contracted blastocysts. Meanwhile, lambda protein phosphatase (LPP) treatment inducing protein dephosphorylation could not prevent YAP1 release from TE nuclei in the contracted blastocysts, indicating that YAP1 release from TE nuclei does not depend on the Hippo signaling pathway. These results suggested that blastocyst contraction causes YAP1 release from TE nuclei through actin cytoskeleton remodeling in a Hippo signaling-independent manner. Thus, the present study raised the possibility that YAP1 subcellular localization is controlled by actin cytoskeletal organization after the blastocyst formation. Our results demonstrate diverse regulatory mechanisms for YAP1 nucleocytoplasmic shuttling in TE cells.Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The ability of diarrheagenic bacterial pathogens, such as enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC), to modulate the activity of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and cell survival has been suggested to benefit bacterial colonization and infection. However, our understanding of the mechanisms by which EPEC modulate these functions is incomplete. In this study, we show that the EPEC type III secreted effector Map stimulates the sheddase activity of the disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain-containing protein 10 (ADAM10) and the ERK and p38 MAPK signaling cascades. Remarkably, all these activities were dependent upon the ability of Map to target host mitochondria, mainly via its mitochondrial toxicity region (MTR). Map targeting of mitochondria disrupted the mitochondrial membrane potential, causing extrusion of mitochondrial Ca2+ into the host cell cytoplasm. We also found that Map targeting of mitochondria is essential for triggering host cell apoptosis. Based on these findings, we propose a model whereby Map imported into mitochondria causes mitochondrial dysfunction and Ca2+ efflux into the host cytoplasm. Since Ca2+ has been reported to promote ADAM10 activation, the acute elevation of Ca2+ in the cytoplasm may stimulate the ADAM10 sheddase activity, resulting in the release of epidermal growth factors that stimulate the ERK signaling cascade. As p38 activity is also Ca2+ sensitive, elevation in cytoplasmic Ca2+ may independently also activate p38. We hypothesize that Map-dependent MAPK activation, combined with Map-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction, evokes mitochondrial host cell apoptosis, potentially contributing to EPEC colonization and infection of the gut.IMPORTANCE Enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC) is an important human diarrhea-causing bacterium. The pathogenic effects of EPEC largely depend upon its ability to inject a series of proteins, termed effectors, into the host cells. One such effector is the mitochondrion-associated protein (Map). Map has been shown to induce actin-rich projections (i.e., filopodia) on the infected cell surface and activate a Rho GTPase enzyme termed Cdc42. Nonetheless, although most injected Map localizes to host mitochondria, its functions in the mitochondria remain unknown. Here, we show that Map targeting of mitochondria stimulates the disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential to induce Ca2+ efflux into the host cytoplasm. The efflux stimulates the activity of a protein termed ADAM10, which induces activation of a mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade leading to host cell apoptosis. As apoptosis plays a central role in host-pathogen interactions, our findings provide novel insights into the functions of mitochondrial Map in promoting the EPEC disease.Copyright © 2020 Ramachandran et al.
The Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway plays numerous essential roles in animal development and tissue/stem cell maintenance. The activation of genes regulated by Wnt/β-catenin signaling requires the nuclear accumulation of β-catenin, a transcriptional co-activator. β-catenin is recruited to many Wnt-regulated enhancers through direct binding to T-cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor (TCF/LEF) family transcription factors. β-catenin has previously been reported to form phase-separated biomolecular condensates (BMCs), which was implicated as a component of β-catenin's mechanism of action. This function required aromatic amino acid residues in the intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) at the N- and C-termini of the protein. In this report, we further explore a role for β-catenin BMCs in Wnt target gene regulation. We find that β-catenin BMCs are miscible with LEF1 BMCs in vitro and in cultured cells. We characterized a panel of β-catenin mutants with different combinations of aromatic residue mutations in human cell culture and Drosophila melanogaster. Our data support a model in which aromatic residues across both IDRs contribute to BMC formation and signaling activity. Although different Wnt targets have different sensitivities to loss of β-catenin's aromatic residues, the activation of every target examined was compromised by aromatic substitution. These mutants are not defective in nuclear import or co-immunoprecipitation with several β-catenin binding partners. In addition, residues in the N-terminal IDR with no previously known role in signaling are clearly required for the activation of various Wnt readouts. Consistent with this, deletion of the N-terminal IDR results in a loss of signaling activity, which can be rescued by the addition of heterologous IDRs enriched in aromatic residues. Overall, our work supports a model in which the ability of β-catenin to form biomolecular condensates in the nucleus is tightly linked to its function as a transcriptional co-regulator.Copyright: © 2024 Stewart et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Mammals have limited limb regeneration compared to amphibians. The role of Wnt signaling pathways in limb regeneration has rarely been studied. So, this study aimed to investigate the effect of Wnt-signaling using chemicals CHIR99021 and IWP-2 on amputated mice digit tips regeneration in an in vitro organ culture system.The distal phalanx of paws from C57BL/6J mouse fetuses at E14.5, E16.5, and E18.5 was amputated. Then, the hands were cultured for 7 days. Subsequently, paws were treated with 1-50 µg/ml concentration of CHIR99021 and 5-10 µg/ml concentration of IWP-2. Finally, the new tissue regrowth was assessed by histological analysis, immunohistochemistry for BC, TCF1, CAN, K14, and P63 genes, and beta-catenin and Tcf1 genes were evaluated with RT-qPCR.The paws of E14.5 and E16.5 days were shrinkaged and compressed after 7 days, so the paws of 18.5E that were alive were selected. As a result, newly-grown masses at digit tips were observed in 25 and 30 µl/ml concentrations of the CHR99021 group but not in the IWP2 treatment (*P<0.05; **P<0.01). qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the significant up-regulation of beta-catenin and Tcf1 genes in CHIR99021 group in comparison to the IWP-2 group (P<0.05). Moreover, Alcian-blue staining demonstrated the presence of cartilage-like tissue at regenerated mass in the CHIR group. In immunohistochemistry analysis beta-catenin, ACN, Keratin-14, and P63 protein expression were observed in digit tips in the CHIR-treated group.By activating the Wnt signaling pathway, cartilage-like tissue formed in the blastema-like mass in the mouse's amputated digit tips.
This study characterized the effect of calorie restriction (CR) on elemental content and stable isotope ratio measurements of bone "collagen" and hair keratin. Adult mice on graded CR (10-40%; 84 days) showed decreased hair δ 15N, δ 13C, and δ 34S values (significantly for δ 15N) with increasing CR, alongside a significant increase in bone "collagen" δ 15N values and a decrease in "collagen" δ 13C values. We propose this was likely due to the intensified mobilization of endogenous proteins, as well as lipids in newly synthesized "collagen". Elemental analysis of bone "collagen" revealed decreased carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur % content with increasing CR which is attributed to a change in the in vivo bone "collagen" structure with extent of CR. This complexity challenges the use of elemental indicators in the assessment of collagen quality in archaeological studies where nutritional stress may be a factor.© 2024 The Author(s).
Acquired resistance is a significant hindrance to clinical application of lenvatinib in unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Further in-depth investigation of resistance mechanisms can help to develop additional therapeutic strategies to overcome or delay resistance. In our study, two lenvatinib-resistant (LR) HCC cell lines were established by treatment with gradient increasing concentration of lenvatinib, named Hep3B-LR and HepG2-LR. Interestingly, continuous lenvatinib treatment reinforced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), cell migration, and cell invasion. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) enrichment analysis of RNA-sequencing from Hep3B-LR and corresponding parental cells revealed that activation of Wnt signaling pathway was involved in this adaptive process. Active β-catenin and its downstream target lymphoid enhancer binding factor 1 (LEF1) were significantly elevated in LR HCC cells, which promoted lenvatinib resistance through mediating EMT-related genes. Data analysis based on Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas Program (TCGA) databases suggests that LEF1, as a key regulator of EMT, was a novel molecular target linked to lenvatinib resistance and poor prognosis in HCC. Using a small-molecule specific inhibitor ICG001 and knocking down LEF1 showed that targeting LEF1 restored the sensitivity of LR HCC cells to lenvatinib. Our results uncover upregulation of LEF1 confers lenvatinib resistance by facilitating EMT, cell migration, and invasion of LR HCC cells, indicating that LEF1 is a novel therapeutic target for overcoming acquired lenvatinib resistance.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
A group of keratin intermediate filament genes, the type II KRT6A-C and type I KRT16 and KRT17, are deemed stress responsive as they are induced in keratinocytes of surface epithelia in response to environmental stressors, in skin disorders (e.g., psoriasis) and in carcinomas. Monitoring stress keratins is widely used to identify keratinocytes in an activated state. Here, we analyze single-cell transcriptomic data from healthy and diseased human skin to explore the properties of stress keratins. Relative to keratins occurring in healthy skin, stress-induced keratins are expressed at lower levels and show lesser type I-type II pairwise regulation. Stress keratins do not "replace" the keratins expressed during normal differentiation nor reflect cellular proliferation. Instead, stress keratins are consistently co-regulated with genes with roles in differentiation, inflammation, and/or activation of innate immunity at the single-cell level. These findings provide a roadmap toward explaining the broad diversity and contextual regulation of keratins.© 2024 The Author(s).
Knockout (ko) mice for the β2 adrenoceptor (Adrβ2) have impaired skeletal muscle regeneration, suggesting that this receptor is important for muscle stem cell (satellite cell) function. Here, we investigated the role of Adrβ2 in the function of satellite cells from β2ko mice in the context of muscle regeneration, through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Immunohistochemical analysis showed a significant reduction in the number of self-renewed Pax7+ satellite cells, proliferating Pax7+/MyoD+ myogenic precursor cells, and regenerating eMHC+ myofibers in regenerating muscle of β2ko mice at 30, 3, and 10 days post-injury, respectively. Quiescent satellite cells were isolated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, and cell cycle entry was assessed by EdU incorporation. The results demonstrated a lower number of proliferating Pax7+/EdU+ satellite cells from β2ko mice. There was an increase in the gene expression of the cell cycle inhibitor Cdkn1a and Notch pathway components and the activation of Notch signaling in proliferating myoblasts from β2ko mice. There was a decrease in the number of myogenin-positive nuclei in myofibers maintained in differentiation media, and a lower fusion index in differentiating myoblasts from β2ko mice. Furthermore, the gene expression of Wnt/β-catenin signaling components, the expression of nuclear β-catenin and the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling decreased in differentiating myoblasts from β2ko mice. These results indicate that Adrβ2 plays a crucial role in satellite cell self-renewal, as well as in myoblast proliferation and differentiation by regulating Notch and Wnt/β-catenin signaling, respectively.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Intermediate filament (IntFil) genes arose during early metazoan evolution, to provide mechanical support for plasma membranes contacting/interacting with other cells and the extracellular matrix. Keratin genes comprise the largest subset of IntFil genes. Whereas the first keratin gene appeared in sponge, and three genes in arthropods, more rapid increases in keratin genes occurred in lungfish and amphibian genomes, concomitant with land animal-sea animal divergence (~ 440 to 410 million years ago). Human, mouse and zebrafish genomes contain 18, 17 and 24 non-keratin IntFil genes, respectively. Human has 27 of 28 type I "acidic" keratin genes clustered at chromosome (Chr) 17q21.2, and all 26 type II "basic" keratin genes clustered at Chr 12q13.13. Mouse has 27 of 28 type I keratin genes clustered on Chr 11, and all 26 type II clustered on Chr 15. Zebrafish has 18 type I keratin genes scattered on five chromosomes, and 3 type II keratin genes on two chromosomes. Types I and II keratin clusters-reflecting evolutionary blooms of keratin genes along one chromosomal segment-are found in all land animal genomes examined, but not fishes; such rapid gene expansions likely reflect sudden requirements for many novel paralogous proteins having divergent functions to enhance species survival following sea-to-land transition. Using data from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project, tissue-specific keratin expression throughout the human body was reconstructed. Clustering of gene expression patterns revealed similarities in tissue-specific expression patterns for previously described "keratin pairs" (i.e., KRT1/KRT10, KRT8/KRT18, KRT5/KRT14, KRT6/KRT16 and KRT6/KRT17 proteins). The ClinVar database currently lists 26 human disease-causing variants within the various domains of keratin proteins.© 2021. The Author(s).
Chlorogenic acid (CGA) is a phenylpropanoid compound that is well known to improve the antioxidant capacity and other biological activities. However, the roles of CGA in the liver development of organisms are unclear. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the function of CGA in the hepatic development in thioacetamide (TAA)-induced zebrafish embryos. We found that CGA exerted certain beneficial effects on zebrafish larvae from TAA-exposed zebrafish embryos, such as increasing the liver size, body length, heart rate, acetylcholinesterase activity, and motor ability. In addition, CGA displayed an antioxidant effect on TAA-induced zebrafish embryos by enhancing the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH), and decreasing of the contents of malondialdehyde (MDA), reactive oxygen species (ROS), and nitric oxide (NO). The results of western blotting analysis showed that CGA inhibited cell apoptosis by increasing the levels of Bcl2 apoptosis regulator and decreasing the levels of Bcl2 associated X (Bax), apoptosis regulator and tumor protein P53. Moreover, CGA promoted cell proliferation in TAA-induced zebrafish larvae, as detected using proliferating cell nuclear antigen fluorescence immunostaining. In addition, CGA inhibited the expression of Wnt signaling pathway genes Dkk1 (encoding Dickkopf Wnt signaling pathway inhibitors), and promoted the expression of Lef1 (encoding lymphoid enhancer binding factor 1) and Wnt2bb (encoding wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 2Bb). When the Wnt signal inhibitor IWR-1 was added, there was no significant change in liver development in the IWR-1 + TAA group compared with the IWR-1 + TAA + CGA group (p <0.05), which suggested that CGA regulates liver development via Wnt signaling pathway. Overall, our results suggested that CGA might alleviate TAA-induced toxicity in zebrafish and promote liver development through the Wnt signaling pathway, which provides a basis for the therapeutic effect of CGA on liver dysplasia.Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Non-centrosomal microtubule-organizing centers (MTOCs) are pivotal for the function of multiple cell types, but the processes initiating their formation are unknown. Here, we find that the transcription factor myogenin is required in murine myoblasts for the localization of MTOC proteins to the nuclear envelope. Moreover, myogenin is sufficient in fibroblasts for nuclear envelope MTOC (NE-MTOC) formation and centrosome attenuation. Bioinformatics combined with loss- and gain-of-function experiments identified induction of AKAP6 expression as one central mechanism for myogenin-mediated NE-MTOC formation. Promoter studies indicate that myogenin preferentially induces the transcription of muscle- and NE-MTOC-specific isoforms of Akap6 and Syne1, which encodes nesprin-1α, the NE-MTOC anchor protein in muscle cells. Overexpression of AKAP6β and nesprin-1α was sufficient to recruit endogenous MTOC proteins to the nuclear envelope of myoblasts in the absence of myogenin. Taken together, our results illuminate how mammals transcriptionally control the switch from a centrosomal MTOC to an NE-MTOC and identify AKAP6 as a novel NE-MTOC component in muscle cells.© 2021, Becker et al.
The present study investigated the effects of dietary paper mulberry (Broussonetia Papyrifera, BP) on growth performance, muscle quality and muscle growth-related mRNA expressions of grass carp. Fish (initial weight: 50.0 ± 0.5 g) were fed diets supplemented with 0% (control diet), 5%, 10%, 15% and 20% BP for 8 weeks. The results showed that increasing levels of paper mulberry linearly and quadratically decreased the special gain rate (SGR) and increased the feed conversion rate (FCR) of grass carp (p < 0.05). Significantly positive quadratic trends were found between paper mulberry levels and muscle crude fat or crude protein of grass carp (p < 0.05). In comparison to the control diet, the 10%BP and 15%BP groups had significantly decreased muscle crude fat and increased crude protein (p < 0.05). The levels of paper mulberry resulted in a linear and quadratic increase in water loss of grass carp muscle (p < 0.05), and all groups with paper mulberry supplementation were significantly higher than the control group (p < 0.05). Significant positive linear and quadratic trends were found between the paper mulberry levels and muscle fiber diameter or density of grass carp (p < 0.05). In comparison to the control diet, the significant differences were found in the 15%BP and 20%BP groups (p < 0.05). The muscle adhesiveness and hardness linearly and quadratically increased with the increasing levels of paper mulberry (p < 0.05), and both of which increased significantly when the level of paper mulberry reached 10% (p < 0.05). In addition, the increase in paper mulberry linearly and quadratically improved the expressions of myoblast determination protein (MyoD), myogenin (MyoG), paired box protein 7 (Pax7) and myostatin 1 (MSTN1) (p < 0.05). When the supplementation of paper mulberry reached 15%, the expressions of all these mRNAs were significantly higher than those of the control group (p < 0.05). In summary, adding 5% paper mulberry did not affect the growth of grass carp. However, the supplementation of 10% paper mulberry could improve muscle quality through improving muscle hardness, reducing fat accumulation and muscle fiber diameter, at the cost of reducing growth performance.
Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) and their differentiated cell types have a great potential for tissue repair and regeneration. While the primary focus of using hiPSCs has historically been to regenerate damaged tissue, emerging studies have shown a more potent effect of hiPSC-derived paracrine factors on tissue regeneration. However, the precise contents of the transplanted hiPSC-derived cell secretome are ambiguous. This is mainly due to the lack of tools to distinguish cell-specific secretome from host-derived proteins in a complex tissue microenvironment in vivo.In this study, we present the generation and characterization of a novel hiPSC line, L274G-hiPSC, expressing the murine mutant methionyl-tRNA synthetase, L274GMmMetRS, which can be used for tracking the cell specific proteome via biorthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT). We assessed the trilineage differentiation potential of the L274G-hiPSCs in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, we assessed the cell-specific proteome labelling in the L274G-hiPSC derived cardiomyocytes (L274G-hiPSC-CMs) in vitro following co-culture with wild type human umbilical vein derived endothelial cells and in vivo post transplantation in murine hearts.We demonstrated that the L274G-hiPSCs exhibit typical hiPSC characteristics and that we can efficiently track the cell-specific proteome in their differentiated progenies belonging to the three germ lineages, including L274G-hiPSC-CMs. Finally, we demonstrated cell-specific BONCAT in transplanted L274G-hiPSC-CMs.The novel L274G-hiPSC line can be used to study the cell-specific proteome of hiPSCs in vitro and in vivo, to delineate mechanisms underlying hiPSC-based cell therapies for a variety of regenerative medicine applications.© 2024. The Author(s).
Coordinated growth of multiple tissues is fundamental to shaping our body, but the underlying mechanisms remain underexplored. In zebrafish embryos, midline tissues composed of the notochord, floorplate, and hypochord elongate synchronously with their lengths aligned. We show that floorplate and hypochord cells collectively migrate posteriorly along the nascent notochord extracellular matrix as it extends posteriorly, maintaining the tripartite configuration. Fibroblast growth factor-mediated migration in a spatially graded manner causes cell stretching, which triggers Yap-dependent proliferation and controls floorplate and hypochord growth. Supported by mathematical modeling, we further suggest that their growth is fine-tuned by mechanical tethering to the notochord via cadherin 2 at the posterior end. We propose that the notochord instructs and sustains the tripartite formation via leader-follower formation control, a strategy from engineering that spatially organizes multiple agents to coordinate the growth of the midline tissues.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37055935 is a review article
Intrauterine adhesions (IUA), characterized by endometrial fibrosis, is a common cause of uterine infertility. We previously demonstrated that partial epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and the loss of epithelial homeostasis play a vital role in the development of endometrial fibrosis. As a pro-survival strategy in maintaining cell and tissue homeostasis, macroautophagy/autophagy, conversely, may participate in this process. However, the role of autophagy in endometrial fibrosis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrated that autophagy is defective in endometria of IUA patients, which aggravates EMT and endometrial fibrosis, and defective autophagy is related to DIO2 (iodothyronine deiodinase 2) downregulation. In endometrial epithelial cells (EECs), pharmacological inhibition of autophagy by chloroquine (CQ) promoted EEC-EMT, whereas enhanced autophagy by rapamycin extenuated this process. Mechanistically, silencing DIO2 in EECs blocked autophagic flux and promoted EMT via the MAPK/ERK-MTOR pathway. Inversely, overexpression of DIO2 or triiodothyronine (T3) treatment could restore autophagy and partly reverse EEC-EMT. Furthermore, in an IUA-like mouse model, the autophagy in endometrium was defective accompanied by EEC-EMT, and CQ could inhibit autophagy and aggravate endometrial fibrosis, whereas rapamycin or T3 treatment could improve the autophagic levels and blunt endometrial fibrosis. Together, we demonstrated that defective autophagy played an important role in EEC-EMT in IUA via the DIO2-MAPK/ERK-MTOR pathway, which provided a potential target for therapeutic implications.Abbreviations: ACTA2/α-SMA: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; AMPK: adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase; AKT/protein kinase B: AKT serine/threonine kinase; ATG: autophagy related; CDH1/E-cadherin: cadherin 1; CDH2/N-cadherin: cadherin 2; CQ: chloroquine; CTSD: cathepsin D; DIO2: iodothyronine deiodinase 2; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; EECs: endometrial epithelial cells; EMT: epithelial-mesenchymal transition; FN1: fibronectin 1; IUA: intrauterine adhesions; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; Rapa: rapamycin; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; T3: triiodothyronine; T4: tetraiodothyronine; TFEB: transcription factor EB; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TGFB/TGFβ: transforming growth factor beta.
The human natural killer (HNK-1) carbohydrate plays important roles during nervous system development, regeneration after trauma and synaptic plasticity. Four proteins have been identified as receptors for HNK-1: the laminin adhesion molecule, high-mobility group box 1 and 2 (also called amphoterin) and cadherin 2 (also called N-cadherin). Because of HNK-1's importance, we asked whether additional receptors for HNK-1 exist and whether the four identified proteins share any similarity in their primary structures. A set of 40,000 sequences homologous to the known HNK-1 receptors was selected and used for large-scale sequence alignments and motif searches. Although there are conserved regions and highly conserved sites within each of these protein families, there was no sequence similarity or conserved sequence motifs found to be shared by all families. Since HNK-1 receptors have not been compared regarding binding constants and since it is not known whether the sulfated or non-sulfated part of HKN-1 represents the structurally crucial ligand, the receptors are more heterogeneous in primary structure than anticipated, possibly involving different receptor or ligand regions. We thus conclude that the primary protein structure may not be the sole determinant for a bona fide HNK-1 receptor, rendering receptor structure more complex than originally assumed.
Endoderm precursors expressing FoxA2 and Sox17 develop from the epiblast through the gastrulation process. In this study, we developed an experimental system to model the endoderm-generating gastrulation process using epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs). To this end, we established an EpiSC line i22, in which enhanced green fluorescent protein is coexpressed with Foxa2. Culturing i22 EpiSCs as aggregates for a few days was sufficient to initiate Foxa2 expression, and further culturing of the aggregates in Matrigel promoted the sequential activation of transcription factor genes involved in endoderm precursor development, e.g., Eomes, Gsc, and Sox17. In aggregation culture of i22 cells for 3 days, all cells expressed POU5F1, SOX2, and E-cadherin, a signature of the epiblast, whereas expression of GATA4 and SOX17 was also activated moderately in dispersed cells, suggesting priming of these cells to endodermal development. Embedding the aggregates in Matrigel for further 3 days elicited migration of the cells into the lumen of laminin-rich matrices covering the aggregates, in which FOXA2 and SOX17 were expressed at a high level with the concomitant loss of E-cadherin, indicating the migratory phase of endodermal precursors. Prolonged culturing of the aggregates generated three segregating cell populations found in post-gastrulation stage embryos: (1) definitive endoderm co-expressing high SOX17, GATA4, and E-cadherin, (2) mesodermal cells expressing a low level of GATA4 and lacking E-cadherin, and (3) primed epiblast cells expressing POU5F1, SOX2 without E-cadherin. Thus, aggregation of EpiSCs followed by embedding of aggregates in the laminin-rich matrix models the gastrulation-dependent endoderm precursor development.© 2020 The Authors. Development, Growth & Differentiation published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Society of Developmental Biologists.
An extracellular matrix of Fibronectin adheres the neural tube to the two flanking columns of paraxial mesoderm and is required for normal vertebrate development. Here, we find that the bilaterally symmetric interfaces between the zebrafish neural tube and paraxial mesoderm function as optimally engineered adhesive lap joints with rounded edges, graded Fibronectin 'adhesive' and an arced adhesive spew filet. Fibronectin is a 'smart adhesive' that remodels to the lateral edges of the neural tube-paraxial mesoderm interfaces where shear stress is highest. Fibronectin remodeling is mechanically responsive to contralateral variation morphogenesis, and Fibronectin-mediated inter-tissue adhesion is required for bilaterally symmetric morphogenesis of the paraxial mesoderm. Strikingly, however, perturbation of the Fibronectin matrix rescues the neural tube convergence defect of cadherin 2 mutants. Therefore, Fibronectin-mediated inter-tissue adhesion dynamically coordinates bilaterally symmetric morphogenesis of the vertebrate trunk but predisposes the neural tube to convergence defects that lead to spina bifida.© 2020, Guillon et al.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is an irrefutable hallmark of cellular senescence and aging. The dysfunction is marked by increased mitochondrial volume and reduced function, typified by low Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP) production and higher Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) generation. Over the years, this dysfunction has been linked to Electron Transport Chain (ETC) malfunction and low NAD levels, augmented by poor mitophagy. However, the genetic regulation of mitochondrial dysfunction is still not clear. Here, using several senescence models, the first report on the role of the downregulation of a mitochondrial protein, Translocase of Inner Mitochondrial Membrane 50 (TIMM50), in senescence is presented. The downregulation of TIMM50 is also sufficient for triggering senescence through impaired mitochondrial function, characterized using a variety of mitochondrial function assessment assays. Reduced levels of TIMM50 initiated all the hallmarks of senescence, and overexpression significantly slowed senescence onset in response to an external trigger. The pathway analysis revealed that TIMM50 loss is mediated by the sirtuin1-dependent downregulation of CCAAT enhancer binding protein alpha (CEBPα), a transcription activator for TIMM50 expression. To establish the translational value of the observation, screening several potential anti-aging compounds revealed TIMM50 stabilizing and senescence-delaying effects only for verapamil and mitochondrial ROS quencher, Mito (2-(2,2,6,6-Tetramethylpiperidin-1-oxyl-4-ylamino)-2-oxoethyl)triphenylphosphonium chloride (MitoTEMPO), both known anti-aging entities. Overall, TIMM50 is identified as the key mitochondrial protein whose downregulation is a critical step in initiating cellular senescence.© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Genomic instability arising from defective responses to DNA damage1 or mitotic chromosomal imbalances2 can lead to the sequestration of DNA in aberrant extranuclear structures called micronuclei (MN). Although MN are a hallmark of ageing and diseases associated with genomic instability, the catalogue of genetic players that regulate the generation of MN remains to be determined. Here we analyse 997 mouse mutant lines, revealing 145 genes whose loss significantly increases (n = 71) or decreases (n = 74) MN formation, including many genes whose orthologues are linked to human disease. We found that mice null for Dscc1, which showed the most significant increase in MN, also displayed a range of phenotypes characteristic of patients with cohesinopathy disorders. After validating the DSCC1-associated MN instability phenotype in human cells, we used genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening to define synthetic lethal and synthetic rescue interactors. We found that the loss of SIRT1 can rescue phenotypes associated with DSCC1 loss in a manner paralleling restoration of protein acetylation of SMC3. Our study reveals factors involved in maintaining genomic stability and shows how this information can be used to identify mechanisms that are relevant to human disease biology1.© 2024. The Author(s).
Recent reports indicate that mitochondrial quality decreases during non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) progression, and targeting the mitochondria may be a possible treatment for NAFLD. Exercise can effectively slow NAFLD progression or treat NAFLD. However, the effect of exercise on mitochondrial quality in NAFLD has not yet been established.In the present study, we fed zebrafish a high-fat diet to model NAFLD, and subjected the zebrafish to swimming exercise.After 12 weeks, swimming exercise significantly reduced high-fat diet-induced liver injury, and reduced inflammation and fibrosis markers. Swimming exercise improved mitochondrial morphology and dynamics, inducing upregulation of optic atrophy 1(OPA1), dynamin related protein 1 (DRP1), and mitofusin 2 (MFN2) protein expression. Swimming exercise also activated mitochondrial biogenesis via the sirtuin 1 (SIRT1)/ AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)/ PPARgamma coactivator 1 alpha (PGC1α) pathway, and improved the mRNA expression of genes related to mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation and oxidative phosphorylation. Furthermore, we find that mitophagy was suppressed in NAFLD zebrafish liver with the decreased numbers of mitophagosomes, the inhibition of PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) - parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (PARKIN) pathway and upregulation of sequestosome 1 (P62) expression. Notably, swimming exercise partially recovered number of mitophagosomes, which was associated with upregulated PARKIN expression and decreased p62 expression.These results demonstrate that swimming exercise could alleviate the effects of NAFLD on the mitochondria, suggesting that exercise may be beneficial for treating NAFLD.Copyright © 2023 Zou, Tang, Chen, Liu, Zheng, Song, Xiao, Zhou, Peng and Tang.
Prenatal exposure to air pollution may associated with inhibition of lung development in the child, however the possible mechanism is unclear. We investigated the effects of traffic-related diesel exhaust particle (DEP) exposure on fetal lung branching morphogenesis and elucidate the possible mechanism. Ex vivo fetal lungs collected from ICR mice at an age of 11.5 embryonic (E) days were exposed to DEPs at 0 (control), 10, and 50 μg/mL and branching morphogenesis was measured for 3 days. Normal IMR-90 human fetal lung fibroblast cells were exposed to DEPs at 0 (control), 10, and 50 μg/mL for 24 h. We observed that DEP exposure significantly inhibited lung branching morphogenesis with reduced lung branching ratios and surface areas on day 3. RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) showed that DEP increased the inflammatory response and impaired lung development-related gene expressions. DEPs significantly decreased Yes-associated protein (YAP), phosphorylated (p)-YAP, transcriptional coactivator with a PDZ-binding motif (TAZ), and p-TAZ in IMR-90 cells at 10 and 50 μg/mL. Treatment of fetal lungs with the YAP inhibitor, PFI-2, also demonstrated restricted lung branching development similar to that of DEP exposure, with a significantly decreased lung branching ratio on day 3. DEP exposure significantly decreased the lung branching modulators fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2), sex-determining region Y-box 2 (SOX2), and SOX9 in IMR-90 cells at 10 and 50 μg/mL. Fetal lung immunofluorescence staining showed that DEP decreased SOX2 expression in fibronectin+ fibroblasts. DEP exposure decreased the cellular senescence regulator, p-sirtuin 1 (SIRT1)/SIRT1 in IMR-90 cells, with RNA-Seq showing impaired telomere maintenance. DEP exposure impaired fetal lung growth during the pseudoglandular stage through dysregulating the Hippo signaling pathway, causing fibroblast lung branching restriction and early senescence. Prenatal exposure to traffic-related air pollution has adverse effects on fetal lung development.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cellular senescence plays a causal role in ageing and, in mice, depletion of p16INK4a-expressing senescent cells delays ageing-associated disorders1,2. Adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADARs) are RNA-editing enzymes that are also implicated as important regulators of human ageing, and ADAR inactivation causes age-associated pathologies such as neurodegeneration in model organisms3,4. However, the role, if any, of ADARs in cellular senescence is unknown. Here we show that ADAR1 is post-transcriptionally downregulated by autophagic degradation to promote senescence through p16INK4a upregulation. The ADAR1 downregulation is sufficient to drive senescence in both in vitro and in vivo models. Senescence induced by ADAR1 downregulation is p16INK4a-dependent and independent of its RNA-editing function. Mechanistically, ADAR1 promotes SIRT1 expression by affecting its RNA stability through HuR, an RNA-binding protein that increases the half-life and steady-state levels of its target mRNAs. SIRT1 in turn antagonizes translation of mRNA encoding p16INK4a. Hence, downregulation of ADAR1 and SIRT1 mediates p16INK4a upregulation by enhancing its mRNA translation. Finally, Adar1 is downregulated during ageing of mouse tissues such as brain, ovary and intestine, and Adar1 expression correlates with Sirt1 expression in these tissues in mice. Together, our study reveals an RNA-editing-independent role for ADAR1 in the regulation of senescence by post-transcriptionally controlling p16INK4a expression.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Platinum based agents-cisplatin and carboplatin in combination with taxanes are used for the treatment of ovarian cancer (OC) patients. However, the majority of OC patients develop recurrent, platinum resistant disease that is uniformly fatal. Platinum treatment enriches for chemoresistant aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) + ovarian cancer stem cells (OCSCs), which contribute to tumor recurrence and disease relapse. Acquired platinum resistance also includes metabolic reprograming and switching to oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Chemosensitive cells rely on glycolysis while chemoresistant cells have the ability to switch between glycolysis and OXPHOS, depending on which pathway drives a selective advantage for growth and chemoresistance. High expression of genes involved in OXPHOS and high production of mitochondrial ROS are characteristics of OCSCs, suggesting that OCSCs favor OXPHOS over glycolysis. Based on connections between OCSCs, chemoresistance and OXPHOS, we hypothesize that platinum treatment induces changes in metabolism that contribute to platinum-induced enrichment of OCSCs.The effect of cisplatin on mitochondrial activity was assessed by JC1 staining and expression of OXPHOS genes by RT-qPCR. Cisplatin-induced changes in Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) levels and activity were assessed by western blot. Small molecule inhibitors of mitochondrial complex I and SIRT1 were used to determine if their enzymatic activity contributes to the platinum-induced enrichment of OCSCs. The percentage of ALDH + OCSCs in OC cells and tumor tissue from xenograft models across different treatment conditions was analyzed using ALDEFLUOR assay and flow cytometry.We demonstrate that platinum treatment increases mitochondrial activity. Combined treatment of platinum agents and OXPHOS inhibitors blocks the platinum-induced enrichment of ALDH + OCSCs in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, platinum treatment increases SIRT1 levels and subsequent deacetylase activity, which likely contributes to the increase in platinum-induced mitochondrial activity.These findings on metabolic pathways altered by platinum-based chemotherapy have uncovered key targets that can be exploited therapeutically to block the platinum-induced enrichment of OCSCs, ultimately improving the survival of OC patients.© 2022. The Author(s).
Growing evidence supports a role for deficient Wnt signalling in Alzheimer's disease (AD). First, the Wnt antagonist DKK1 is elevated in AD brains and is required for amyloid-β-induced synapse loss. Second, LRP6 Wnt co-receptor is required for synapse integrity and three variants of this receptor are linked to late-onset AD. However, the expression/role of other Wnt signalling components remain poorly explored in AD. Wnt receptors Frizzled1 (Fzd1), Fzd5, Fzd7 and Fzd9 are of interest due to their role in synapse formation/plasticity. Our analyses showed reduced FZD1 and FZD7 mRNA levels in the hippocampus of human early AD stages and in the hAPPNLGF/NLGF mouse model. This transcriptional downregulation was accompanied by reduced levels of the pro-transcriptional histone mark H4K16ac and a concomitant increase of its deacetylase Sirt2 at Fzd1 and Fzd7 promoters in AD. In vitro and in vivo inhibition of Sirt2 rescued Fzd1 and Fzd7 mRNA expression and H4K16ac levels at their promoters. In addition, we showed that Sirt2 recruitment to Fzd1 and Fzd7 promoters is dependent on FoxO1 activity in AD, thus acting as a co-repressor. Finally, we found reduced levels of SIRT2 inhibitory phosphorylation in nuclear samples from human early AD stages with a concomitant increase in the SIRT2 phosphatase PP2C. This results in hyperactive nuclear Sirt2 and favours Fzd1 and Fzd7 repression in AD. Collectively, our findings define a novel role for nuclear hyperactivated SIRT2 in repressing Fzd1 and Fzd7 expression via H4K16ac deacetylation in AD. We propose SIRT2 as an attractive target to ameliorate AD pathology.© 2022. The Author(s).
Functional connectivity (FC) is a sensitive metric that provides a readout of whole cortex coordinate neural activity in a mouse model. We examine the impact of experimental SAH modeled through endovascular perforation, and the effectiveness of subsequent treatment on FC, through three key questions: 1) Does the endovascular perforation model of SAH induce deficits in FC; 2) Does exposure to hypoxic conditioning provide protection against these FC deficits and, if so, is this neurovascular protection SIRT1-mediated; and 3) does treatment with the SIRT1 activator resveratrol alone provide protection against these FC deficits? Cranial windows were adhered on skull-intact mice that were then subjected to either sham or SAH surgery and either left untreated or treated with hypoxic post-conditioning (with or without EX527) or resveratrol for 3 days. Mice were imaged 3 days post-SAH/sham surgery, temporally aligned with the onset of major SAH sequela in mice. Here we show that the endovascular perforation model of SAH induces global and network-specific deficits in FC by day 3, corresponding with the time frame of DCI in mice. Hypoxic conditioning provides SIRT1-mediated protection against these network-specific FC deficits post-SAH, as does treatment with resveratrol. Conditioning-based strategies provide multifaceted neurovascular protection in experimental SAH.
Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) is a member of the sirtuin family that functions to deacetylate both histones and non-histone proteins. Previous studies have identified significant SIRT1 upregulation in eutopic endometrium from infertile women with endometriosis. However, SIRT1 function in the uterus has not been directly studied. Using immunochemistry analysis, we found SIRT1 to be most strongly expressed at GD4.5 and GD5.5 in decidualized cells and at GD7.5 in secondary decidual cells in mouse. To assess the role of SIRT1 in uterine function, we generated uterine Sirt1 conditional knockout mice (Pgrcre/+Sirt1f/f; Sirt1d/d). A 6-month fertility trial revealed that Sirt1d/d females were subfertile. Implantation site numbers were significantly decreased in Sirt1d/d mice compared with controls at GD5.5. Sirt1d/d implantation sites at GD4.5 could be divided into two groups, Group #1 with luminal closure and nonspecific COX2 expression compared with controls (14/20) and Group #2 with an open lumen and no COX2 (6/20). In Sirt1d/d Group #1, nuclear FOXO1 expression in luminal epithelial cells was significantly decreased. In Sirt1d/d Group #2, nuclear FOXO1 expression was almost completely absent, and there was strong PGR expression in epithelial cells. At GD5.5, stromal PGR and COX2 were significantly decreased in Sirt1d/d uterine in the areas surrounding the embryo compared with controls, indicating defective decidualization. An artificially induced decidualization test revealed that Sirt1d/d females showed defects in decidualization response. All together, these data suggest that SIRT1 is important for decidualization and contributes to preparing a receptive endometrium for successful implantation.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Diabetes mellitus (DM), a chronic metabolic disease, severely impairs male reproductive function. However, the underpinning mechanisms are still incompletely defined, and there are no effective strategies or medicines for these reproductive lesions. Icariin (ICA), the main active component extracted from Herba epimedii, is a flavonoid traditionally used to treat testicular dysfunction. Whether ICA can improve male reproductive dysfunction caused by DM and its underlying mechanisms are still unclear. In this study, by employing metformin as a comparative group, we evaluated the protective effects of ICA on male reproductive damages caused by DM and explored the possible mechanisms.Rats were fed with a high fat diet (HFD) and then intraperitoneally injected with streptozotocin (STZ) to induce diabetes. Diabetic rats were randomly divided into T2DM + saline group, T2DM + metformin group and T2DM + ICA group. Rats without the treatment of HFD and STZ were used as control group. The morphology of testicular tissues was examined by histological staining. The mRNA expression levels were determined by quantitative real-time PCR. Immunostaining detected the protein levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) in testicular tissues. TUNEL assay was performed to determine cell apoptosis in the testicular tissues. The protein expression levels of HIF-1α and SIRT1 in the testicular tissues were determined by western blot assay.ICA effectively improved male reproductive dysfunction of diabetic rats. ICA administration significantly decreased fasting blood glucose (FBG) and insulin resistance index (IRI). In addition, ICA increased testis weight, epididymis weight, sperm number, sperm motility and the cross-sectional area of seminiferous tubule. ICA recovered the number of spermatogonia, primary spermatocytes and Sertoli cells. Furthermore, ICA upregulated the expression of PCNA, activated SRIT1-HIF-1α signaling pathway, and inhibited intrinsic mitochondria dependent apoptosis pathway by upregulating the expression of Bcl-2 and downregulating the expression of Bax and caspase 3.These results suggest that ICA could attenuate male reproductive dysfunction of diabetic rats possibly via increasing cell proliferation and decreasing cell apoptosis of testis. ICA potentially represents a novel therapeutic strategy against DM-induced testicular damages.© 2021. The Author(s).
The phosphorylation of Rab10 (pT73-Rab10) by LRRK2 promotes the establishment of epithelial cell polarity by controlling the trafficking to the primary cilia membrane of cilia-resident proteins and signaling proteins. Previous studies have identified a site in the globular tail domain of MYO5A that specifically binds to only the phosphorylated form of Rab10. In this work, we have demonstrated that pT73-Rab10 does not associate with the globular tail of MYO5B. We have mapped the putative binding site to a required three amino acids (MEN, 1473-1475) in the MYO5A globular tail domain that are not found in the MYO5B globular tail. Substitution of the MEN amino acid sequence found in MYO5A into the paralogous position in the MYO5B globular tail conferred the ability to associate with pT73-Rab10. The results demonstrate that the interactors with MYO5A and MYO5B are not completely overlapping and that the interaction of pT73-Rab10 is specific to the MYO5A globular tail domain.
The reactivation of genetic programs from early development is a common mechanism for injury-induced organ regeneration. T-box 3 (TBX3) is a member of the T-box family of transcription factors previously shown to regulate pluripotency and subsequent lineage commitment in a number of tissues, including limb and lung. TBX3 is also involved in lung and heart organogenesis. Here, we provide a comprehensive and thorough characterization of TBX3 and its role during pancreatic organogenesis and regeneration.We interrogated the level and cell specificity of TBX3 in the developing and adult pancreas at mRNA and protein levels at multiple developmental stages in mouse and human pancreas. We employed conditional mutagenesis to determine its role in murine pancreatic development and in regeneration after the induction of acute pancreatitis. We found that Tbx3 is dynamically expressed in the pancreatic mesenchyme and epithelium. While Tbx3 is expressed in the developing pancreas, its absence is likely compensated by other factors after ablation from either the mesenchymal or epithelial compartments. In an adult model of acute pancreatitis, we found that a lack of Tbx3 resulted in increased proliferation and fibrosis as well as an enhanced inflammatory gene programs, indicating that Tbx3 has a role in tissue homeostasis and regeneration.TBX3 demonstrates dynamic expression patterns in the pancreas. Although TBX3 is dispensable for proper pancreatic development, its absence leads to altered organ regeneration after induction of acute pancreatitis.© 2023. The Author(s).
The hypothalamus plays crucial roles in regulating endocrine, autonomic, and behavioral functions via its diverse nuclei and neuronal subtypes. The developmental mechanisms underlying ontogenetic establishment of different hypothalamic nuclei and generation of neuronal diversity remain largely unknown. Here, we show that combinatorial T-box 3 (TBX3), orthopedia homeobox (OTP), and distal-less homeobox (DLX) expression delineates all arcuate nucleus (Arc) neurons and defines four distinct subpopulations, whereas combinatorial NKX2.1/SF1 and OTP/DLX expression identifies ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) and tuberal nucleus (TuN) neuronal subpopulations, respectively. Developmental analysis indicates that all four Arc subpopulations are mosaically and simultaneously generated from embryonic Arc progenitors, whereas glutamatergic VMH neurons and GABAergic TuN neurons are sequentially generated from common embryonic VMH progenitors. Moreover, clonal lineage-tracing analysis reveals that diverse lineages from multipotent radial glia progenitors orchestrate Arc and VMH-TuN establishment. Together, our study reveals cellular mechanisms underlying generation and organization of diverse neuronal subtypes and ontogenetic establishment of individual nuclei in the mammalian hypothalamus.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Although immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer care, patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) rarely respond to these treatments, a failure that is attributed to poor infiltration and activation of T cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME). We performed an in vivo CRISPR screen and identified lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) as a potent epigenetic regulator of immunotherapy response in PDA. Mechanistically, KDM3A acts through Krueppel-like factor 5 (KLF5) and SMAD family member 4 (SMAD4) to regulate the expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Ablation of KDM3A, KLF5, SMAD4, or EGFR in tumor cells altered the immune TME and sensitized tumors to combination immunotherapy, whereas treatment of established tumors with an EGFR inhibitor, erlotinib, prompted a dose-dependent increase in intratumoral T cells. This study defines an epigenetic-transcriptional mechanism by which tumor cells modulate their immune microenvironment and highlights the potential of EGFR inhibitors as immunotherapy sensitizers in PDA. SIGNIFICANCE: PDA remains refractory to immunotherapies. Here, we performed an in vivo CRISPR screen and identified an epigenetic-transcriptional network that regulates antitumor immunity by converging on EGFR. Pharmacologic inhibition of EGFR is sufficient to rewire the immune microenvironment. These results offer a readily accessible immunotherapy-sensitizing strategy for PDA.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 521.©2020 American Association for Cancer Research.
Actin filaments and microtubules create diverse cellular protrusions, but intermediate filaments, the strongest and most stable cytoskeletal elements, are not known to directly participate in the formation of protrusions. Here we show that keratin intermediate filaments directly regulate the morphogenesis of microridges, elongated protrusions arranged in elaborate maze-like patterns on the surface of mucosal epithelial cells. We found that microridges on zebrafish skin cells contained both actin and keratin filaments. Keratin filaments stabilized microridges, and overexpressing keratins lengthened them. Envoplakin and periplakin, plakin family cytolinkers that bind F-actin and keratins, localized to microridges, and were required for their morphogenesis. Strikingly, plakin protein levels directly dictate microridge length. An actin-binding domain of periplakin was required to initiate microridge morphogenesis, whereas periplakin-keratin binding was required to elongate microridges. These findings separate microridge morphogenesis into distinct steps, expand our understanding of intermediate filament functions, and identify microridges as protrusions that integrate actin and intermediate filaments.© 2020, Inaba et al.
Skeletal muscle plays a key role in metabolic homeostasis. Brg1/Brm-associated factor (Baf) 60c, a subunit of the mating type switching/sucrose non-fermenting (SWI/SNF) chromatin remodeling complexes, was previously identified to be robustly involved in glycolytic muscle function and systemic metabolic balance. However, whether Baf60c regulates the secreted factors and couples the skeletal muscle function to systemic metabolism remains unclear. Here, we uncover that Baf60c regulates the expression of a series of secreted factors, among which Musclin, a recently identified negative regulator of beige adipocyte thermogenesis, was top-ranked in the upregulated factors in Baf60c-deficient muscle. Mechanistically, Baf60c physically interacts with the transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor 2c (Mef2c) and modulates the chromatin accessibility at the proximal promoter regions upstream of the Musclin gene transcription start site (TSS), therefore negatively regulating Musclin gene expression in the skeletal muscle. Further in vivo metabolic assays demonstrate that muscle-specific Baf60c ablation inhibits thermogenesis and elevates blood glucose. Conversely, muscle-specific overexpression of Baf60c increases thermogenesis and energy expenditure and improves systemic glucose metabolism. Together, this work uncovers Baf60c/Mef2c-mediated chromatin remodeling signaling in myocytes that control adipose tissue thermogenesis and systemic metabolism through Musclin-mediated muscle-fat crosstalk.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
The meninges act as a regulator of brain development by secreting ligands that act on neural cells to regulate neurogenesis and neuronal migration. Meningeal-derived retinoic acid (RA) promotes neocortical neural progenitor cell cycle exit; however, the underlying molecular mechanism is unknown. Here, we used spatial transcriptomics and profiling of retinoic acid receptor α (RARα) DNA binding in Foxc1-mutant embryos that lack meninges-derived signals to identify potential neurogenic transcriptional mechanisms of RA signaling in telencephalic neural progenitors. This identified upregulation of Sox2 and Notch pathway genes, and RARα binds to the Sox2ot promoter, a long noncoding RNA that regulates Sox2 expression. Our experiments using maternal RA treatment and in utero electroporation in Foxc1 mutants support that meningeal-derived RA promotes neurogenesis by suppressing Notch signaling, a progenitor self-renewal pathway. Our findings elucidate a previously unknown mechanism of how meningeal RA coordinates neocortical development and provide insight into how defects in meningeal development may cause neurodevelopmental disorders.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Arsenic effectively treats acute promyelocytic leukemia by inducing SUMO and ubiquitin-dependent degradation of the promyelocytic leukemia (PML)-retinoic acid receptor alpha oncogenic fusion protein. However, some patients relapse with arsenic-resistant disease because of missense mutations in PML. To determine the mechanistic basis for arsenic resistance, PML-/- cells were reconstituted with YFP fusions of wild-type PML-V and two common patient mutants: A216T and L217F. Both mutants were resistant to degradation by arsenic but for different biochemical reasons. Arsenic did not trigger SUMOylation of A216T PML, which failed to recruit the SUMO-targeting ubiquitin ligases RNF4 and TOPORS. L217F PML did respond with increased SUMO2/3 conjugation that facilitated RNF4 engagement but failed to reach the threshold of SUMO1 conjugation required to recruit TOPORS. Thus, neither mutant accumulated the appropriate polyubiquitin signal required for p97 binding. These PML mutants have revealed a convergence of SUMO1, SUMO2/3, TOPORS, and RNF4 that facilitates the arsenic-induced degradation of PML.© 2025 Jaffray et al.
Vitamin A (VitA) is an important fat-soluble vitamin which plays an important role in cell growth and individual development. However, the effect of VitA on the repair process of muscle injury and its molecular mechanism are still unclear. In this study, VitA and RA were first added to the culture medium of differentiated cells. We then detected cell differentiation marker proteins and myotube fusion. Moreover, the effects of VitA on RARα expression and nuclear translocation were further examined. The results showed that VitA significantly promoted the differentiation of C2C12, and the expression of RARα was significantly increased. Furthermore, VitA was injected into skeletal muscle injury in mice. HE staining and Western Blot results showed that VitA could significantly accelerate the repair of skeletal muscle injury and VitA increase the expression of RARα in mice. This study provides a theoretical basis for elucidating the regulation mechanism of VitA-mediated muscle development and the development of therapeutic drugs for muscle diseases in animals.
The esophagus is known to be derived from the foregut. However, the mechanisms regulating this process remain unclear. In particular, the details of the human esophagus itself have been poorly researched. In this decade, studies using human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) have proven powerful tools for clarifying the developmental biology of various human organs. Several studies using hiPSCs have demonstrated that retinoic acid (RA) signaling promotes the differentiation of foregut into tissues such as lung and pancreas. However, the effect of RA signaling on the differentiation of foregut into esophagus remains unclear.We established a novel stepwise protocol with transwell culture and an air-liquid interface system for esophageal epithelial cell (EEC) differentiation from hiPSCs. We then evaluated the effect of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), which is a retinoic acid receptor (RAR)α, RARβ and RARγ agonist, on the differentiation from the hiPSC-derived foregut. Finally, to identify which RAR subtype was involved in the differentiation, we used synthetic agonists and antagonists of RARα and RARγ, which are known to be expressed in esophagus.We successfully generated stratified layers of cells expressing EEC marker genes that were positive for lugol staining. The enhancing effect of ATRA on EEC differentiation was clearly demonstrated with quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, immunohistology, lugol-staining and RNA sequencing analyses. RARγ agonist and antagonist enhanced and suppressed EEC differentiation, respectively. RARα agonist had no effect on the differentiation.We revealed that RARγ activation promotes the differentiation of hiPSCs-derived foregut into EECs.
Estrogen receptor α (ERα) modulates gene expression by interacting with chromatin regions that are frequently distal from the promoters of estrogen-regulated genes. Active chromatin-enriched "super-enhancer" (SE) regions, mainly observed in in vitro culture systems, often control production of key cell type-determining transcription factors. Here, we defined super-enhancers that bind to ERα in vivo within hormone-responsive uterine tissue in mice. We found that SEs are already formed prior to estrogen exposure at the onset of puberty. The genes at SEs encoded critical developmental factors, including retinoic acid receptor α (RARA) and homeobox D (HOXD). Using high-throughput chromosome conformation capture (Hi-C) along with DNA sequence analysis, we demonstrate that most SEs are located at a chromatin loop end and that most uterine genes in loop ends associated with these SEs are regulated by estrogen. Although the SEs were formed before puberty, SE-associated genes acquired optimal ERα-dependent expression after reproductive maturity, indicating that pubertal processes that occur after SE assembly and ERα binding are needed for gene responses. Genes associated with these SEs affected key estrogen-mediated uterine functions, including transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) and LIF interleukin-6 family cytokine (LIF) signaling pathways. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first identification of SE interactions that underlie hormonal regulation of genes in uterine tissue and optimal development of estrogen responses in this tissue.
Poor uterine receptivity is one major factor leading to pregnancy loss and infertility. Understanding the molecular events governing successful implantation is hence critical in combating infertility.To define Progesterone Receptor (PGR)-regulated molecular mechanisms and epithelial roles in receptivity.RNA-sequencing and PGR-ChIP-seq were conducted in parallel to identify PGR-regulated pathways during the Window of implantation (WOI) in endometrium of fertile women.Endometrial biopsies from the proliferative and mid-secretory phases were analyzed.Participants were fertile, reproductive aged (18-37 years) women with normal cycle length, and without any history of dysmenorrhea, infertility, or irregular cycles. In total, 42 endometrial biopsies obtained from 42 women were analyzed in this study.There were no interventions during this study.Here we measured the alterations in gene expression and PGR occupancy in the genome during the WOI, based on the hypothesis that PGR binds uterine chromatin cycle dependently to regulate genes involved in uterine cell differentiation and function.653 genes were identified with regulated PGR binding and differential expression during the WOI. These were involved in regulating inflammatory response, xenobiotic metabolism, epithelial mesenchymal transition, cell death, interleukin/Signal Transducer And Activator Of Transcription (STAT) signaling, estrogen response, and Mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (MTORC1) response. Transcriptome of the epithelium identified 3052 differentially expressed genes, of which 658 were uniquely regulated. Transcription factors Interferon Regulatory Factor 8 (IRF8) and Myocyte Enhancer Factor 2C (MEF2C) were found to be regulated in the epithelium during the WOI at the protein level, suggesting potentially important functions that are previously unrecognized.PGR binds the genomic regions of genes regulating critical processes in uterine receptivity and function.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society 2019.
