No abstract found for PubMed ID 40914595
Response to trastuzumab combined with chemotherapy (T-chemo) in human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive advanced gastric cancer (AGC) varies widely, highlighting the need for more precise biomarkers beyond conventional HER2 assessment with immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in situ hybridization (ISH). The HER2DX ERBB2 messenger RNA (mRNA) assay, a clinically validated genomic test initially developed for early-stage HER2-positive breast cancer, quantitatively measures ERBB2 expression and may improve patient selection for T-chemo in AGC.In a retrospective cohort of 134 patients with AGC, including 58 who received T-chemo, we evaluated whether the HER2DX ERBB2 score defines more accurately HER2 status and correlates with treatment response and survival outcomes in HER2-positive AGC, compared with standard pathology-based methods.Our findings demonstrate that a high HER2DX ERBB2 score was significantly associated with improved progression-free survival [hazard ratio (HR) 0.81, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.69-0.95, P = 0.012] and overall survival (HR 0.43, 95% CI 0.23-0.81, P = 0.008).These results suggest that ERBB2 mRNA expression, as measured by HER2DX, may help refine selection for T-chemo and guide more personalized treatment strategies in HER2-positive AGC.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40913795 is a review article
This large-scale study presents the clinicopathological characteristics and cumulative incidence of contralateral breast cancer (CBC) in Japanese BRCA1/2 pathogenic variant carriers, including cases diagnosed after the implementation of national insurance coverage.We analyzed 2949 breast cancer cases from the registry database of the Japanese Organization of Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer.BRCA1 carriers predominantly developed triple-negative breast cancer, whereas BRCA2 carriers more frequently developed luminal-type tumors, with a younger age of onset observed in BRCA1 carriers. No significant clinicopathological differences were found between the age groups. The cumulative incidence of CBC was 10.0% at five years and 29.0% at 10 years among BRCA1 carriers and 14.0% at five years and 19.0% at 10 years among BRCA2 carriers. CBC was observed in all age groups, including older patients. These findings highlight the importance of individualized decision-making in surgical planning and surveillance strategies.This study included a broad age range of patients, reflecting real-world data following the expansion of insurance coverage in Japan. Further case studies and long-term follow-up are warranted. Our findings support the development of appropriate clinical care and preventive strategies for BRCA1/2 carriers in Japan.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Endoscopic breast surgery (EBS) is designed to reduce surgical trauma and optimize cosmetic outcomes through inconspicuous incisions. However, a comprehensive understanding of the evolution of research focus in EBS is lacking. This study aimed to analyze global publication trends, academic impacts, and evolving research directions in the field of EBS. The Web of Science Core Collection database was searched for publications related to EBS from database inception to December 31, 2024. Bibliometrix, CiteSpace, VOSviewer, and Scimago Graphica were utilized to analyze publication and citation trends, contributive countries, prolific institutions, influential authors, significant journals, and research hotspots. Among the 2074 publications initially identified, 333 met the inclusion criteria. The number of annual publications grew exponentially post-2019. China, South Korea, and the United States dominated research productivity, with Changhua Christian Hospital as the top institution. Lai HW was the most influential author, and Aesthetic Plastic Surgery was among the leading journals. Keyword analysis revealed a focus on endoscopic nipple-sparing mastectomy, breast reconstruction, and oncological safety. Research hotspots shifted from feasibility evaluations to advanced reconstructive techniques and robot-assisted surgeries. Research on EBS has undergone significant evolution over the past three decades. This study provides valuable insights into the current research landscape and development trends in EBS, offering guidance to researchers, clinicians, and policymakers to promote the field and improve patient outcomes. Priority should be given to future research evaluating long-term oncological safety, cost-effectiveness, and the implementation of large-scale multicenter trials to establish standardized protocols and evidence-based practices.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag London Ltd., part of Springer Nature.
While human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2) has emerged as a tumor-agnostic biomarker, standard HER2 testing for anti-HER2 therapies using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in situ hybridization (ISH) assays remains subjective, time-consuming, and often inaccurate. To address these limitations, an ultrafast and precise HER2 testing method is developed using Lab-On-An-Array (LOAA) digital real-time PCR (drPCR), a fully automated digital PCR enabling real-time absolute quantification. A multicenter study involving four independent breast cancer cohorts cross-validates the high diagnostic accuracy of drPCR-based HER2 assessment. Comparative analyses with artificial intelligence algorithms, next-generation sequencing, and droplet digital PCR demonstrate that drPCR is faster, simpler, and more accurate than conventional assays for assessing HER2 status, while IHC/ISH frequently yields false positives. Importantly, in patients initially diagnosed as HER2-positive and treated with neoadjuvant anti-HER2 therapy, the HER2 drPCR(+)/IHC-ISH(+) group achieves high pathological complete response rates, while HER2 drPCR(-)/IHC-ISH(+) cases exhibit poor treatment responses, highlighting the superior predictive accuracy of drPCR for anti-HER2 therapy response. Additionally, drPCR identifies patients with chromosome 17 centromere abnormalities, HER2-zero/ERBB2 hemizygous deletion, and ERBB2 hyperamplification who respond favorably to anti-HER2 therapy. Collectively, these findings establish drPCR as a clinically feasible, standardized, and ultrafast HER2 testing method for improved prediction of anti-HER2 therapy response in patients with cancer.© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
A subset of gastric cancers (GCs) is linked to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. This study aims to characterize the histopathological and molecular features of EBV-associated GCs (EBVaGCs), focusing on predictive biomarkers and genomic and transcriptomic analysis. A total of 35 primary EBVaGCs were considered. The presence of EBV was confirmed with in-situ hybridization. Immunohistochemical analyses for HER2, PD-L1, Claudin 18.2 (CLDN18), and mismatch repair (MMR) proteins were performed. Genomic and transcriptomic profiles were assessed using AmoyDX Master panel which can identify, at DNA level, SNV, InDels, and CNV on 571 hot genes, microsatellite status, TMB, and HRD, while at RNA level, in addition to rearrangements/fusions in 45 genes, also quantifies the expression of 2396 cancer-related transcripts. The following histotypes were identified: carcinoma with lymphoid stroma (CLS; 69%), tubular (20%), and mixed (11%). Most cases were associated with atrophic gastritis (71%) and only 11% with dysplasia. The vast majority (94%) of EBVaGCs expressed EBER in all tumor cells. MMR deficiency and HER2 overexpression were each observed in 6% of cases, while all tumors had a PD-L1 Combined Positive Score ≥10. Sixty-six percent of cases showed moderate/strong CLDN18 expression in ≥75% of cancer cells. The most frequently altered genes were PIK3CA (41%) and ARID1A (17%). Transcriptomic analysis revealed substantial differential gene expression between EBVaGCs and EBV-negative controls, with upregulation of genes involved in antigen presentation, natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction in EBVaGCs. Within EBVaGC, CLS showed higher expression of immune-related transcripts and higher PD-L1 expression than other histotypes. This study establishes EBVaGC as a distinct molecular class, with a distinctive profile of genomic alterations and expression of predictive biomarkers and also with a unique immune microenvironment with enhanced cytotoxic activity. The findings highlight EBV's role in early tumor development and EBVaG-CLS as a distinct subgroup within EBVaGC, characterized by unique morphologic features and a pronounced immune activation profile.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Fritillaria walujewii Regel (Xinjiang Bei-Mu), an authentic ("Dao-di") medicinal herb documented in Chinese pharmacopoeias, is traditionally used to treat respiratory disorders. Its principal steroidal alkaloid, peiminine (PMI), demonstrates significant anticancer activity. Oxaliplatin (Oxa), a first-line chemotherapeutic cornerstone for gastric cancer (GC), is limited clinically by intrinsic chemoresistance. Natural product-derived monomers represent a promising strategy for developing chemosensitizers to overcome such resistance. However, the potential of PMI to counteract Oxa chemoresistance and its underlying mechanisms remain unexplored, warranting comprehensive investigation. To determine the chemosensitizing effects of PMI in combination with Oxa for GC treatment, specifically evaluating its capacity to reverse chemoresistance and enhance therapeutic efficacy.The effects of PMI combined with Oxa versus Oxa monotherapy on GC cells (HGC27, BGC823, MKN45) were assessed using CCK-8, colony formation, and flow cytometry apoptosis assays to evaluate cell proliferation and apoptosis. Subsequently, qPCR-based apoptosis pathway array and transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) were used to differentially expressed apoptosis-related genes and to uncover key signaling pathways mediating PMI-induced Oxa sensitization. The protein expression level of Bcl-2, Bax, PARP, cytochrome c (CYCS), Caspase-3/9, RAS and AKT was determined by Western blot. Finally, the efficacy of PMI+Oxa combination therapy was validated in vivo using both cell line-derived xenograft (CDX) and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models.PMI (50 μM) synergized with Oxa (2.5 μM), significantly enhancing apoptosis and suppressing proliferation in GC cells. Mechanistically, the combination activated the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway by upregulating Bax and inducing the release of CYCS and the cleavage of caspase-9, caspase-3, and PARP. Concurrently, it suppressed the RAS/PI3K/AKT survival pathway by inhibiting Ras-GTP and phospho-AKT. In CDX models, PMI (2 mg/kg) + Oxa achieved a tumor growth inhibition (TGI) rate of > 80.8 %, compared to 20.4 % for Oxa alone. Strikingly, in PDX models which preserve clinical tumor heterogeneity-the combination induced a TGI of > 70 % without exacerbating systemic toxicity.PMI is a novel dual-targeting chemosensitizer that overcomes Oxa resistance by simultaneously activating intrinsic apoptosis and inhibiting pro-survival signaling. Its demonstrated efficacy in clinically relevant PDX models highlights its significant translational potential for platinum-resistant GC therapy.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Breast cancer continues to pose a significant global health burden, highlighting the urgent need for novel chemotherapeutic agents with improved selectivity and reduced toxicity. In this study, we rationally designed and synthesized six novel amide-bridged triazole-coumarin hybrids (5a-f) based on the known anticancer potential of both pharmacophores. The synthesized compounds were evaluated for their cytotoxicity in MCF-7 and MDA─MB─231 breast cancer cell lines and non-tumorigenic MCF-10A cells. Among them, derivative 5f showed the most potent anticancer activity with minimal toxicity toward normal cells. Mechanistic studies revealed that 5f induced apoptosis by modulating Bax and Bcl─2 expression and arrested the cell cycle at the S phase via downregulation of CDK2 and Cyclin E. Molecular docking analyses confirmed its high binding affinity to CDK2 and Bcl─2, supporting its potential as a dual-target inhibitor. These findings suggest that compound 5f is a promising lead structure for the development of selective anticancer agents targeting breast cancer.© 2025 The Author(s). Chemistry & Biodiversity published by Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Pathogenic variants in the APC gene are classically associated with autosomal dominant familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), characterized by tens-to-thousands of colonic adenomatous polyps and a high-penetrance predisposition to colorectal cancer. More recently, specific PVs in the YY1 binding motif of APC promoter 1B have been associated with autosomal dominant gastric adenocarcinoma and proximal polyposis of the stomach (GAPPS), characterized by tens-to-thousands of fundic gland polyps and a predisposition to gastric cancer but which are only rarely associated with features consistent with FAP. Although management guidelines currently treat FAP and GAPPS as mutually exclusive conditions, the extent of phenotypic overlap is not well-characterized. Here, we present a multi-clinic and -laboratory collaboration reporting a previously undescribed APC promoter 1B insertion/deletion likely pathogenic variant in a family with mixed GAPPS and FAP phenotype. The family proband is a female of unspecified white ancestry. She was diagnosed with GAPPS at age 30 and, after developing gastric cancer at age 39, underwent curative gastrectomy. She is now 61 with a cumulative history of between 50 and 100 colon adenomas and recently completed subtotal colectomy. Her multi-gene panel testing in 2022 demonstrated a likely pathogenic insertion/deletion (indel) within the APC promoter 1B YY1 binding motif (APC c.-192_-191delATinsTAGCAAGGG). Review of a four-generation pedigree revealed the ages of gastric cancer presentation in the family ranged from 39-60's, with advanced gastric polyposis and prophylactic gastrectomy as early as ages 11 and 13 in the proband's daughter and nephew, respectively. Six of 10 (60%) family members known or presumed to carry the APC likely pathogenic variant underwent colectomy or hemicolectomy due to colon polyposis. The youngest known carrier in the family is a 12-year-old female, and the oldest living carrier is the proband's brother, age 66. A novel APC indel causes concomitant GAPPS and FAP presentations in this previously unreported large kindred. Mixed gastric and colon phenotypes have been rarely described in GAPPS families and the ages of presentation of gastric polyposis are strikingly young in the current family with prophylactic gastrectomies completed as early as age 11 and 13. These ages are significantly younger than the 15 years of age at which national guidelines currently recommend initiation of EGD for screening in GAPPS. Although the mechanism for this combined GAPPS-FAP phenotype is unclear, patients in this family and those with similar APC promoter 1B variants should be offered both gastric and colon cancer risk management.© 2025. The Author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) ranks among the leading causes of cancer-related deaths on a global scale. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of euxanthone on the proliferation of HCC cell lines and elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.HCC cell lines (HepG2, Huh-7, SNU-398, SK-HEP-1, Hep3B) and the normal liver cell line THLE-2 were cultured and treated with euxanthone at concentrations between 0 and 100 μM. Cell viability was evaluated using the MTT assay, while phase contrast microscopy and cell cycle analysis were performed to evaluate morphological changes and cell cycle distribution. qRT-PCR was utilized to measure miRNA and mRNA expression levels, while a dual luciferase reporter assay validated the interaction between miR-199a-5p and E2F3.Euxanthone significantly (P < 0.05) inhibited cell proliferation in all HCC cell lines, with IC₂⁽ values between 6.25 and 25 μM. HepG2 cells exhibited pronounced sensitivity, with an IC₂⁽ of 6.25 μM. Euxanthone induced a G1 phase arrest, characterized by decreased expression of Cyclin D1 and E, and increased levels of p21. Additionally, it upregulated miR-199a-5p, which was identified as a mediator of the antiproliferative effects by targeting E2F3. Euxanthone treatment also significantly (P < 0.05) inhibited HepG2 cell migration in a wound healing assay.Taken together, euxanthone exerts antiproliferative effects on HCC cells via the miR-199a-5p-E2F3 axis and inhibits cell migration. These findings support its potential as a therapeutic agent for HCC, highlighting the need for further investigation into its clinical applications.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 (CDK4/6) are approved for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer, but not for melanoma.In this study, we evaluated the effectiveness of the CDK4/6 inhibitor, palbociclib, the CDK2 inhibitor, PF-07104091, the dual CXCR1 and CXCR2 (CXCR1/2) antagonist, SX-682, and the combination of these inhibitors for effective treatment of melanoma in preclinical models.Both palbociclib and SX-682 inhibited the growth of BRAFWT/NRASWT B16-F10 and NRASmut 1014 melanoma tumors and in both models, SX-682 created a more anti-tumor immune microenvironment. The combination effect was additive in the B16F10 model, but not in the 1014 model. In the B16F10 model, the addition of the CDK2 inhibitor, PF-07104091, overcame B16F10 acquired resistance to CDK4/6 inhibitors by suppressing the induction of cyclin D1 and E1 expression by palbociclib. In the less responsive 1014 cells, cyclin D1 was reduced, but cyclin E1 was induced in response to PF-07104091. However, in both models, combined treatment with palbociclib and PF-07104091 markedly suppressed cyclin A2, cyclin D1, cyclin E1 and pRB-S807/S811. Combining CDK4/6 and CDK2 inhibitors with the CXCR1/2 antagonist, SX-682, halted B16F10 tumor growth by blocking tumor cell proliferation and increasing the anti-tumor immune response in the tumor microenvironment.The combination of all three inhibitors resulted in a tumor microenvironment characterized by increased IFNγ-producing CD4+ T cells, decreased CD4+FOXP3+ T regulatory cells (Tregs), and decreased IL-10-producing CD4+ T cells. This combination also decreased the percentage of CD8+ T cells that expressed PD-1 or TIM-3 and increased the ratio of MHCII+F4/80+ M1-like macrophages to CD206+F4/80+ M2-like macrophages. These data suggest that inhibiting CDK4/6 and CDK2, combined with antagonism of CXCR1/2, may be an effective treatment for BRAF wild-type melanoma tumors and NRAS mutant melanoma tumors that express Rb and are resistant to immune checkpoint inhibitors.Copyright © 2025 Yang, Luo, Ward, Chen, Zebala, Maeda, Yan and Richmond.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40900809
The age of thelarche in girls has declined globally. While earlier menarche has been linked to higher breast density - a known risk factor for breast cancer - the association between earlier thelarche and breast density remains unclear.114 Girls presenting with idiopathic central precocious puberty without medication (ICPP), early thelarche (ET), and normal age at thelarche (NT) were recruited from pediatric endocrine clinics of three hospitals during the year of 2020-2021 in Hefei, Anhui Province, China and were followed up for 3-5 years. Participants had their breast composition measured by MRI at 1-year post menarche. Fasting blood samples were collected at baseline and follow-up to measure of reproductive hormone concentrations.The ET group and ICPP group exhibited significantly higher percent fibroglandular volume (%FGV: 42.1%, 52.0% ) and fibroglandular volume (FGV: 183.3 cm3, 237.0cm3) compared with the NT group (%FGV: 34.7%, FGV: 148.8cm3) . Serum estrogen levels at baseline and follow-up were elevated in the ET group relative to the NT group (52.1 vs. 40.7 pg/ml; 46.1 vs. 38.6 pg/ml), but did not differ significantly from the ICPP group (baseline: 54.6 vs. 52.1 pg/ml; follow-up: 48.9 vs. 46.1 pg/ml). Each 1-year earlier onset of thelarche was associated with a 7.8% increase in %FGV and a 35.7 cm³ increase in FGV. The combined hormonal pathway mediated the association between early puberty (age at thelarche < 9 years) and %FGV in this study, accounting for 28.7% (95% CI: 8.6% - 51.3%) of the total mediation effect. For the association between early puberty and FGV, baseline estradiol mediated 27.7% (95% CI: 11.8% - 44.8%), the pathway from baseline to follow-up estradiol mediated 13.6% (95% CI: 5.0% - 24.3%), and the combined hormonal pathway mediated 45.8% (95% CI: 18.1% - 68.0%).In this cohort study, earlier thelarche (even between 8.0 and 9.0 years) was associated with higher %FGV and FGV. Prolonged estrogen exposure may represent a modifiable mediator that could be targeted for breast cancer prevention strategies in girls with earlier puberty.© 2025. The Author(s).
Hepatic neoplastic transformation is a multistep process driven by chronic inflammation, oxidative stress, immune evasion, and dysregulated cell proliferation. Intercepting these early events may offer a viable strategy for preventing hepatocellular carcinoma. In this study, we investigated the chemopreventive potential of mirtazapine, an FDA-approved antidepressant with known anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties, in a diethylnitrosamine-induced rat model of early hepatic neoplasia. Mirtazapine significantly attenuated hepatotoxicity, reducing serum transaminases, oxidative stress markers, and restoring antioxidant defenses. Histopathological evaluation revealed that mirtazapine markedly reduced the incidence of foci of altered hepatocytes (FAH), nuclear atypia, and inflammatory infiltration. Our results showed enhanced infiltration and tissue levels of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, along with upregulation of Th1/Th17 cytokines (IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-12, IL-17) and the chemokine CXCL10, alongside suppression of immunosuppressive mediators (IL-10, TGF-β, sCD163). Additionally, mirtazapine downregulated pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-α, promoted macrophage recruitment (CD68), and shifted polarization toward an M1-like phenotype, as evidenced by increased iNOS expression. Mirtazapine also inhibited pro-proliferative and angiogenic markers (Ki67, Cyclin D1, VEGF, MMP-2), reactivated apoptotic pathways (Bax, caspase-3, p53), and suppressed oncogenic STAT3 and ERK1/2 signaling. Correlation and disease prediction analyses identified immune activation markers as strong negative predictors of FAH burden. Importantly, systems biology and network analysis confirmed these findings by demonstrating that mirtazapine modulates key immune-regulatory networks, particularly those governing T cell responses, cytokine signaling, and macrophage polarization, thus mechanistically validating its immunomodulatory and anti-tumor effects. These results highlight mirtazapine's potential for repurposing as a chemopreventive agent in inflammation-driven hepatic neoplasia.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a cellular process important for numerous developmental processes, wound healing and cancer progression. In the context of heterogenous nature of cancer, EMT occurs at the forefront of tumor invasion, although the precise molecular mechanisms governing its spatial dynamics remain unclear. This study aimed to explore the diverse responses to EMT in monolayer cell cultures of MCF10A epithelial cell with induction of Zinc-finger E-box binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1), an EMT-inducing transcription factor. ZEB1-induced MCF10A cells exhibited EMT in space- and cell density-dependent manner. The expression of ZEB1 was modulated by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. We found that CDK4/6 and USP51 enhanced ZEB1 protein stability via deubiquitination. Moreover, suppressing USP51 and CDK4/6 activity attenuated cell migration, a characteristic of the mesenchymal phenotype, in ZEB1-induced MCF10A cells. Finally, we demonstrated that CDK4/6 kinase activity is important for cell migration as well as stabilizing ZEB1 in the mesenchymal breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231. These insights could pave the way for developing more targeted and effective therapies targeting at ZEB1 and EMT in advanced cancers.© 2025. The Author(s).
Background and Objectives: The effect of AR expression on prognosis in hormone receptor-positive her2-negative breast cancer is controversial. There are studies showing that AR is a treatment target, a mechanism of resistance to endocrine treatments, and a prognostic indicator in these patients whose standard treatment is a CDK 4/6 inhibitor added to endocrine treatment. We aimed to investigate the effect of AR, the AR/ER ratio, and the AR/PR ratio on CDK4/6 inhibitor treatment response in breast cancer, as well as their effects on PFS, and to validate the hypothesis that AR is a target for research. Materials and Methods: Patients who were diagnosed with metastatic hormone receptor-positive her2-negative breast cancer and received cdk4/6 inhibitor + aromatase inhibitor in first-line therapy were included in this study conducted at Balıkesir Atatürk City Hospital. The tru-cut biopsy samples of the patients were evaluated immunohistochemically for AR, ER, and PR. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to calculate the estimated median survival in PFS analyses, and the variables were compared with the Log-Rank test. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis was applied to determine the ideal cut-off. Cox regression analysis was used in univariate survival models, and the multivariate model was established with the "Forward: Likelihood Ratio (LR)" method. Hazard ratios (HRs) were also calculated as 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs). A p value below 0.05 was accepted for statistical significance. Results: In total, 41 patients were included in the study, and 73% (n = 30) of the patients were AR-positive. Increased AR (HR 1.014; 95% CI: 1.002-1.026; p = 0.023) was an unfavorable prognostic indicator. In our study, being ≥55 years old, being postmenopausal, not having visceral metastasis, having a non-IDC histology, having a low AR level (<50%), having an AR/ER ratio < 0.74, and having an AR/PR ratio < 1.00 were found to be associated with longer PFS. All factors were evaluated with univariate Cox regression analysis. Increasing AR (HR 1.014; 95% CI: 1.002-1.026; p = 0.023) was an unfavorable prognostic marker. Having an AR/ER ratio ≥ 0.74 (HR: 2.522; 95% CI: 1.004-6.336; p = 0.049) and having AR/PR ≥ 1 (HR: 2.659; 95% CI: 1.029-6.869; p = 0.043) were negative prognostic indicators. Conclusions: Our results were consistent with the literature and demonstrated the value of the androgen receptor as a therapeutic target, a mechanism explaining resistance to endocrine therapy, and an adverse prognostic indicator for creating resistance to endocrine therapy in breast cancer.
Background: Breast cancer, one of the most researched cancers in oncology, remains the primary cause of cancer-related mortality in women. Its biological complexity, which includes phenotypic, genetic, and microenvironmental aspects, makes modeling and treatment quite difficult. The need for more physiologically realistic models is highlighted by the comparison of two-dimensional (2D) cell cultures with 3D breast-cancer-derived spheroids, which discloses how important pathways such as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and insulin-like growth factor I receptor (IGF-IR) influence cell behavior and extracellular matrix (ECM) macromolecular expression. Methods: The purpose of this study was to utilize novel 3D cell platforms to assess the effect of inhibiting the EGFR and IGF-IR pathways, alone or in combination, on the functional properties and the expression levels of certain matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) which are implicated in breast cancer progression (i.e., triple-negative and luminal A breast cancer subtypes) and related with the EGFR and IGF-ΙR molecular network, as also demonstrated through STRING analysis. Results: Our results demonstrated potential crosstalk between EGFR and IGF-IR signaling, which influences cell proliferation and spheroid growth, dissemination, and migration. Significant phenotypic changes proposed between 2D and 3D cell cultures, and alterations in the expression of MMPs, were also recorded. Conclusions: Both breast cancer cell lines retained acknowledged characteristics across the tested models while also exhibiting new, condition-dependent properties. Overall, our findings enhance our understanding on the interplay between the EGFR and IGF-IR pathways and underscore the value of 3D models in revealing key biological processes underlying distinct breast cancer phenotypes.
The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β)/SMAD signaling pathway, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascade, and dopamine receptor activity are all implicated in tumor progression. This study investigates molecular interactions among these pathways, identifying MAPK proteins that bridge SMAD and dopamine signaling in the context of breast cancer pathogenesis. A cohort of 405 breast cancer patients was categorized into molecular subtypes: luminal A (n = 130), luminal B HER2-negative (n = 100), luminal B HER2-positive (n = 96), non-luminal HER2-positive (n = 36), and triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC; n = 43). Transcriptomic profiling using microarrays and bioinformatics-based network analysis revealed differentially expressed genes across subtypes. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to validate 11 key transcripts, and protein expression was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). MicroRNA (miRNA) regulatory interactions were analyzed to assess post-transcriptional modulation. Among 167 differentially expressed genes, 14 were consistently altered across all subtypes. These included cell division cycle 42 (CDC42), KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase (KRAS), and transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFB1), which were upregulated, as well as fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2), fibroblast growth factor 7 (FGF7), and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1), which were downregulated. miRNA analysis revealed miR-221, miR-222, and miR-16-5p as regulators of these pathways. ELISA confirmed reduced KIT, IGF1, and FGF family proteins in tumor tissues, with KRAS significantly upregulated. Protein interaction analysis highlighted key hubs linking MAPK, SMAD, and dopamine signaling. This study elucidates crucial molecular intersections between MAPK, SMAD, and dopamine pathways, identifying potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for breast cancer.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remains a formidable clinical challenge due to its molecular heterogeneity and resistance to conventional therapies. This study presents a high-integrity nanoemulsion (NE) formulation designed to enhance the delivery and stability of the Toll-like receptor 7/8 (TLR7/8) agonist resiquimod (R848) for immunotherapy. Neutral and negatively charged NEs were developed with and without the reactive lipophilic compound ricinoleic acid. Physicochemical characterization and in vitro studies in RAW 264.7 macrophages and 4T1 TNBC cells demonstrated that R848-loaded NEs exhibit prolonged shelf-life, minimal protein binding, and efficient cellular uptake. Incorporation of ricinoleic acid improved drug retention and delivery, likely through enhanced drug-lipid interactions. Molecular profiling in 4T1 cells revealed modulation of key biomarkers (TLR4/7, Cyclin D1, NF-κB), induction of autophagy (LC3II, p62, Beclin-1), and upregulation of PD-L1 expression. These dual effects, autophagy-mediated antitumor mechanisms and immune checkpoint modulation, highlight the potential of R848-NEs as a synergistic partner in anti-PD-L1 combination therapy, offering a promising strategy for TNBC treatment.© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 26073375 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 26267324 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16154715 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 18381231 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16997151 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16718776 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15224192 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 12894247 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 28427431 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 24744585 is a review article
Inactivation of nuclear retinoic acid receptor beta (RARbeta) expression is implicated in tumorigenesis. We hypothesized that loss of RARbeta in gastric cancer cells may occur as a result of multiple factors, including epigenetic modifications which alter RARbeta promoter chromatin structure. We examined hypermethylation of CpG islands present in the RARbeta promoter by methylation-specific PCR and the expression of RARbeta in gastric cancer cell lines and tissues. Three (MKN-28, -45 and -74) out of eight gastric cancer cell lines had a loss of RAR expression associated with promoter methylation. RARbeta expression was retrieved in these cell lines by treatment with 5-azacytidine or by the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A. Promoter hypermethylation was detected in 64% (7/11) of gastric carcinoma tissues with reduced expression of RARbeta, whereas it was detected in 22% (2/9) of tumors with retained RARbeta expression. To investigate the functions of exogenous RARbeta in gastric cancer cells, we transfected a retroviral RARbeta expression vector (LNSbeta) into MKN-28 cells that have hypermethylation of the RARbeta promoter. Overexpression of RAR in MKN-28 cells appeared to regulate the expression of DNA methyltransferase and DNA demethylase and the acetylation of hitone H4. These results suggest that the transcriptional inactivation of the RARbeta by promoter CpG hypermethylation is frequently associated with gastric carcinoma. Our data also suggests that DNA methylation plays a pivotal role in establishing and maintaining an inactive state of RARbeta by rendering the chromatin structure inaccessible to the transcription machinery.
Gastric cancer is not a single disease, and its subtype classification is still evolving. Next-generation sequencing studies have identified novel genetic drivers of gastric cancer, but their use as molecular classifiers or prognostic markers of disease outcome has yet to be established. In this study, we integrated somatic mutational profiles and clinicopathologic information from 544 gastric cancer patients from previous genomic studies to identify significantly mutated genes (SMG) with prognostic relevance. Gastric cancer patients were classified into regular (86.8%) and hypermutated (13.2%) subtypes based on mutation burden. Notably, TpCpW mutations occurred significantly more frequently in regular, but not hypermutated, gastric cancers, where they were associated with APOBEC expression. In the former group, six previously unreported (XIRP2, NBEA, COL14A1, CNBD1, ITGAV, and AKAP6) and 12 recurrent mutated genes exhibited high mutation prevalence (≥3.0%) and an unexpectedly higher incidence of nonsynonymous mutations. We also identified two molecular subtypes of regular-mutated gastric cancer that were associated with distinct prognostic outcomes, independently of disease staging, as confirmed in a distinct patient cohort by targeted capture sequencing. Finally, in diffuse-type gastric cancer, CDH1 mutation was found to be associated with shortened patient survival, independently of disease staging. Overall, our work identified previously unreported SMGs and a mutation signature predictive of patient survival in newly classified subtypes of gastric cancer, offering opportunities to stratify patients into optimal treatment plans based on molecular subtyping. Cancer Res; 76(7); 1724-32. ©2016 AACR.©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 24061039 is a review article
Monoclonal antibodies targeting the EGF receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase, such as cetuximab and panitumumab, achieve clinically meaningful responses in patients affected by head and neck and colorectal cancers. Despite this evidence of efficacy, no genomic abnormalities that robustly predict sensitivity to EGFR blockade have been yet identified. This suggests that, in some tumor contexts, EGFR dependency is not acquired during neoplastic transformation and rather reflects an aberrant declination of physiologic traits typical of normal tissue counterparts. Indeed, EGFR signals are crucial for the reconstitution of damaged mucosa in the context of acute inflammation, and their sustained activation is likely to turn into a pro-oncogenic cue during chronic inflammation. Although positive predictors of response to anti-EGFR antibodies remain unknown, multiple determinants of resistance have been described, including alterations interfering with antibody-receptor interaction, deregulation of parallel signaling pathways, and mutations in downstream transducers. These findings provide new opportunities for the optimization of therapeutic strategies based on drug combinations. However, the emerging notion that genetic interactions and compensatory mechanisms may affect-both positively and negatively-the efficacy of targeted therapies complicates the rational design of combinatorial approaches and implies a rethinking of the criteria required to prioritize laboratory findings for clinical validation in investigational trials.©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 22042966
Skipped: PubMed ID 19318488 is a review article
The MET/hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) signaling pathway plays important roles in oncogenesis and tumor progression in a variety of human cancers. MET/HGF drives an invasive signaling program that can be dysregulated in human cancers through a number of activating mechanisms, including mutations, overexpression, amplification, alternative splicing, and HGF ligand-induced autocrine/paracrine loop signaling. As a testimony of MET-targeting therapeutics is beginning to come to clinical fruition, Catenacci and colleagues report the first case of durable complete response under an anti-MET receptor monoclonal antibody, MetMAb, in a patient with chemotherapy-refractory, advanced gastric cancer metastatic to the liver, found to have high MET gene polysomy and remarkably high serum HGF level. Serum and tissue studies also revealed predictive biomarkers for therapeutic response to MET inhibition.2011 AACR
Skipped: PubMed ID 23696246 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 19387476 is a review article
Evaluation of: Turner N, Pearson A, Sharpe R et al. FGFR1 amplification drives endocrine therapy resistance and is a therapeutic target in breast cancer. Cancer Res. 70(5), 2085-2094 (2010). FGF receptor (FGFR) family members are aberrantly activated during carcinogenesis due to gene amplification, chromosomal translocation and missense mutation. FGFR1 is preferentially amplified in estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, whereas FGFR2 is amplified in triple-negative breast cancer and diffuse-type gastric cancer. Gene amplification of FGFRs results in ligand-independent FGFR signaling to RAS-ERK, PI3K-AKT and JAK-STAT cascades due to the overexpression of wild-type or C-terminally deleted FGFRs. Cediranib, TKI258, Ki23057, MK-2461 and brivanib are broad-range tyrosine kinase inhibitors targeting FGFRs and other receptors. Clinical application of small-molecule FGFR inhibitors could improve the prognosis of FGFR-driven cancer patients. Diagnostic detection of tumors with FGFR genetic alterations in primary lesion, peritoneal effusion, pleural effusion and bone marrow is necessary to select patients for FGFR-targeted therapeutics.
In this review, the advances in the study of breast cancer molecular classifications and the molecular signatures of the luminal subtypes A and B of breast cancer were summarized. Effective clinical outcomes depend mainly on successful preclinical diagnosis and therapeutic decisions. Over the last few years, the ever-expanding investigations focusing on breast cancer diagnosis and the clinical trials have provided accumulating information on the molecular characteristics of breast cancer. Specifically, among the estrogen receptor (ER)-positive types of breast cancer, the luminal subtype A breast cancer has been shown to exhibit good clinical outcomes with endocrine therapy, whereas the luminal subtype B breast cancer represents the more complicated type, diagnostically as well as therapeutically. Furthermore, even in luminal subtype A breast cancer, the resistance to treatment has become the major limitation for endocrine-based therapy. Accumulating molecular data and further clinical trials may enable more accurate diagnostic and therapeutic decisions. The molecular signatures have emerged as a powerful tool for future diagnosis and therapeutic decisions, although currently available data are limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 27390604 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 20436504 is a review article
We analysed primary breast cancers by genomic DNA copy number arrays, DNA methylation, exome sequencing, messenger RNA arrays, microRNA sequencing and reverse-phase protein arrays. Our ability to integrate information across platforms provided key insights into previously defined gene expression subtypes and demonstrated the existence of four main breast cancer classes when combining data from five platforms, each of which shows significant molecular heterogeneity. Somatic mutations in only three genes (TP53, PIK3CA and GATA3) occurred at >10% incidence across all breast cancers; however, there were numerous subtype-associated and novel gene mutations including the enrichment of specific mutations in GATA3, PIK3CA and MAP3K1 with the luminal A subtype. We identified two novel protein-expression-defined subgroups, possibly produced by stromal/microenvironmental elements, and integrated analyses identified specific signalling pathways dominant in each molecular subtype including a HER2/phosphorylated HER2/EGFR/phosphorylated EGFR signature within the HER2-enriched expression subtype. Comparison of basal-like breast tumours with high-grade serous ovarian tumours showed many molecular commonalities, indicating a related aetiology and similar therapeutic opportunities. The biological finding of the four main breast cancer subtypes caused by different subsets of genetic and epigenetic abnormalities raises the hypothesis that much of the clinically observable plasticity and heterogeneity occurs within, and not across, these major biological subtypes of breast cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 22178455 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 24596345 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 23988612 is a review article
To correlate the variable clinical features of oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer with somatic alterations, we studied pretreatment tumour biopsies accrued from patients in two studies of neoadjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy by massively parallel sequencing and analysis. Eighteen significantly mutated genes were identified, including five genes (RUNX1, CBFB, MYH9, MLL3 and SF3B1) previously linked to haematopoietic disorders. Mutant MAP3K1 was associated with luminal A status, low-grade histology and low proliferation rates, whereas mutant TP53 was associated with the opposite pattern. Moreover, mutant GATA3 correlated with suppression of proliferation upon aromatase inhibitor treatment. Pathway analysis demonstrated that mutations in MAP2K4, a MAP3K1 substrate, produced similar perturbations as MAP3K1 loss. Distinct phenotypes in oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer are associated with specific patterns of somatic mutations that map into cellular pathways linked to tumour biology, but most recurrent mutations are relatively infrequent. Prospective clinical trials based on these findings will require comprehensive genome sequencing.
Skipped: PubMed ID 25907219 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16113099 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 24111892 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 23702927 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 20087430 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 24291072 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 25544707 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 21965336 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 26028978 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 19088017 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 21898546 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 11737884 is a review article
Aberrant β-catenin expression as determined by assessment of its subcellular localization constitutes a surrogate marker of Wnt signalling pathway activation and has been reported in a subset of breast cancers. The association of β-catenin/Wnt pathway activation with clinical outcome and the mechanisms leading to its activation in breast cancers still remain a matter of controversy. The aims of this study were to address the distribution of β-catenin expression in invasive breast cancers, the correlations between β-catenin expression and clinicopathological features and survival of breast cancer patients, and to determine whether aberrant β-catenin expression is driven by CTNNB1 (β-catenin encoding gene) activating mutations. Immunohistochemistry was performed on a tissue microarray containing 245 invasive breast carcinomas from uniformly treated patients, using two anti-β-catenin monoclonal antibodies. Selected samples were subjected to CTNNB1 exon 3 mutation analysis by direct gene sequencing. A good correlation between the two β-catenin antibodies was observed (Spearman's r >0.62, P<0.001). Respectively, 31 and 11% of the cases displayed lack/reduction of β-catenin membranous expression and nuclear accumulation. Complete lack of β-catenin expression was significantly associated with invasive lobular carcinoma histological type. Subgroup analysis of non-lobular cancers or non-lobular grade 3 carcinomas revealed that lack/reduction of β-catenin membranous expression and/or nuclear accumulation were significantly associated with oestrogen receptor negativity, absence of HER2 gene amplification and overexpression, lack/reduction of E-cadherin expression and tumours of triple-negative and basal-like phenotype. Univariate survival analysis revealed a significant association between β-catenin nuclear expression and shorter metastasis-free and overall survival in the whole cohort; however, β-catenin nuclear expression was not an independent predictor of outcome in multivariate analysis. No CTNNB1 mutations were identified in the 28 selected breast carcinomas analysed. In conclusion, β-catenin/Wnt pathway activation is preferentially found in triple-negative/basal-like breast carcinomas, is associated with poor clinical outcome and is unlikely to be driven by CTNNB1 mutations in breast cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 20971825 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 26968398 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 26040571 is a review article
The intricate regulation of several signaling pathways is essential for embryonic development and adult tissue homeostasis. Cancers commonly display aberrant activity within these pathways. A population of cells identified in several cancers, termed cancer stem cells (CSCs) show similar properties to normal stem cells and evidence suggests that altered developmental signaling pathways play an important role in maintaining CSCs and thereby the tumor itself.This review will focus on the roles of the Notch, Wnt and Hedgehog pathways in the brain, breast and colon cancers. We describe the roles these pathways play in normal tissue homeostasis through the regulation of stem cell fate in these three tissues, and the experimental evidence indicating that the role of these pathways in cancers of these is directly linked to CSCs.A large body of evidence is accumulating to indicate that the deregulation of Notch, Wnt and Hedgehog pathways play important roles in both normal and cancer stem cells. We are only beginning to understand how these pathways interact, how they are coordinated during normal development and adult tissue homeostasis, and how they are deregulated during cancer. However, it is becoming increasingly clear that if we are to target CSCs therapeutically, it will likely be necessary to develop combination therapies.If CSCs are the driving force behind tumor maintenance and growth then understanding the molecular mechanisms regulating CSCs is essential. Such knowledge will contribute to better targeted therapies that could significantly enhance cancer treatments and patient survival. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Biochemistry of Stem Cells.Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 23881035 is a review article
Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R) is commonly expressed in primary breast cancers. Understanding the role of IGF-1R signaling in the different subtypes of breast cancer is important because each subtype has a different outcome and requires different treatment modalities. However, the precise biological significance of IGF-1R expression in cancer cells is still unclear. In this study, we examined the expression of IGF-1R in the different molecular subtypes of breast cancer. The effects of IGF-1R expression on the survival rates and outcomes of breast cancer were also examined.IGF-1R expression was evaluated immunohistochemically in tissue microarray blocks constructed from 1,198 invasive breast cancer samples collected from six medical institutions. IGF-1R expression was interpreted according to the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)/neu immunohistochemistry scoring system. Scores of 2+ and 3+ were considered positive.Positive IGF-1R expression was observed in 65.4% of invasive breast cancer samples. IGF-1R expression was detected in all cancer subtypes (luminal A, 84.4%; luminal B, 75.9%; HER2, 21.2%; triple-negative, 46.6%) and was found to be associated with a positive hormone receptor status and the absence of HER2 amplification (p<0.001). Positive IGF-1R expression was significantly associated with high survival rates (p=0.014). However, a multivariate analysis revealed that the expression levels of IGF-1R did not achieve statistical significance. In the triple-negative cancer subtype, IGF-1R expression was found to be associated with a lower disease-free survival rate (p=0.031).Positive IGF-1R expression is associated with a favorable prognosis in breast cancer. IGF-1R is frequently expressed in the luminal A/B subtypes of breast cancer, and its expression is related to the hormone receptor status.
Skipped: PubMed ID 11879567 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15343273 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 20639898 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 26099527 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 17295177 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16799620 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 19387255 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 21829020 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 23994386
Skipped: PubMed ID 11935086 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 21303380 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 27895396 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 11956813 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 23426905 is a review article
Somatic mutations activating telomerase reverse-trancriptase promoter were recently identified in several tumour types. Here we identify frequent similar mutations in human hepatocellular carcinomas (59%), cirrhotic preneoplastic macronodules (25%) and hepatocellular adenomas with malignant transformation in hepatocellular carcinomas (44%). In hepatocellular tumours, telomerase reverse-transcripase- and CTNNB1-activating mutations are significantly associated. Moreover, preliminary data suggest that telomerase reverse-trancriptase promoter mutations can increase the expression of telomerase transcript. In conclusion, telomerase reverse-trancriptase promoter mutation is the earliest recurrent genetic event identified in cirrhotic preneoplastic lesions so far and is also the most frequent genetic alteration in hepatocellular carcinomas, arising from both the cirrhotic or non-cirrhotic liver.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver malignancy. Here, we performed high-resolution copy-number analysis on 125 HCC tumors and whole-exome sequencing on 24 of these tumors. We identified 135 homozygous deletions and 994 somatic mutations of genes with predicted functional consequences. We found new recurrent alterations in four genes (ARID1A, RPS6KA3, NFE2L2 and IRF2) not previously described in HCC. Functional analyses showed tumor suppressor properties for IRF2, whose inactivation, exclusively found in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related tumors, led to impaired TP53 function. In contrast, inactivation of chromatin remodelers was frequent and predominant in alcohol-related tumors. Moreover, association of mutations in specific genes (RPS6KA3-AXIN1 and NFE2L2-CTNNB1) suggested that Wnt/β-catenin signaling might cooperate in liver carcinogenesis with both oxidative stress metabolism and Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways. This study provides insight into the somatic mutational landscape in HCC and identifies interactions between mutations in oncogene and tumor suppressor gene mutations related to specific risk factors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 24024136 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 21251164 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 20019356 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 11193292 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 27323951 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 27029895 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 27508192 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16934487 is a review article
Myc is involved in cell growth, proliferation, apoptosis, energy metabolism, and differentiation. Whether it is essential for hepatocellular proliferation and carcinogenesis is unclear due to a lack of an efficient hepatocyte-specific Myc disruption model. This study used a novel genetic model to investigate the involvement of Myc in hepatocellular proliferation and hepatocarcinogenesis in mice.Temporal hepatocyte-specific Myc disruption was achieved by use of the tamoxifen-inducible Cre-ER(T2) recombinase system under control of the serum albumin promoter. Hepatocyte proliferation was assessed by administering peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα) agonist Wy-14,643. A diethylnitrosamine-induced liver cancer model was used to evaluate the role of Myc in hepatocarcinogenesis.Tamoxifen administration induced recombination of Myc specifically in hepatocytes of Myc(fl/fl,ERT2-Cre) mice. When treated with a known hepatocellular proliferative stimulus Wy-14,643, Myc(fl/fl,ERT2-Cre) mice showed a lower liver/body weight ratio and suppressed hepatocyte proliferation as compared to Myc(fl/fl) mice. Hepatic expression of cell cycle control genes, DNA repair genes, and Myc target gene miRNAs were upregulated in Wy-14,643-treated Myc(fl/fl) mouse livers, but not in Wy-14,643-treated Myc(fl/fl,ERT2-Cre) livers. However, no differences were observed in the lipid-lowering effect of Wy-14,643 between Myc(fl/fl,ERT2-Cre) and Myc(fl/fl) mice, consistent with no differences in the expression of several PPARα target genes involved in fatty acid β-oxidation. Moreover, when subjected to the diethylnitrosamine liver cancer bioassay, Myc(fl/fl,ERT2-Cre) mice exhibited a markedly lower incidence of tumor formation compared with Myc(fl/fl) mice.Myc plays an essential role in hepatocellular proliferation and liver tumorigenesis.Published by Elsevier B.V.
